congressman how are you sir I am doing
well Joe good to see you again
you look official bro you look very
official you have an American flag in
the background you got books have you
read those books be honest me yeah it's
a good question I mean this one's like a
congressional cookbook look I'm not
gonna read that though obviously some of
these I have or at least I dabble in
books like I'll look over a book mostly
I've definitely read my book that one's
up there I've read that way too many
times I hate reading it now and that's
the one that's out writing it I wrote it
that's the one right now that comes out
yeah that comes out uh
I don't know when we're posting this but
Tuesday April 7th that's tomorrow
yeah that's exactly when this will come
out so perfect fortitude we need that
right now and we do we do know the rest
of this I just kind of set up for this
uh I found that weird ass painting right
there it's some like flea market in San
Diego back when I was stationed there
it's like a it's like a Shh it's a bunch
of ships it looks like a horrible idea
for a tattoo you know sometimes people
have those really bad old ship tattoos
yeah I feel like there's worse tattoos
you could get oh yeah I've got them is
there what about the typewriter do you
use the typewriter
no that that is a legit typewriter that
was my granddad's old room
so I I say that they kept in pretty good
shape I didn't really have to do much
restoring but you can still buy the ink
for that and actually we would uh we
used to have it set up in the house so
one guest came over they could like type
write a message and so it's like a
guests log it's kind of cool that is
cool thing so what's your take on what
we're going through right now Dan for
everybody in the future this is a day
it's basically a month into like extreme
coronavirus lockdown for the country it
all started sort of in the beginning of
March now here we are in the first week
of April and everybody's stir-crazy and
weirded out by this
including me yeah and I'm sure you as
well what is your take on this Wow gun
really speaking I remember I remember
the weekend where everything all of a
sudden shifted it was the March 14th
weekend I remember that weekend because
it was my birthday
and I remember how everybody was
basically still going out to bars and
restaurants and then all of a sudden
everything changed I think the entire
paradigm changed and I could go through
a long timeline of how we got there
there's a lot of finger-pointing right
now a lot of opportunism the reality is
a lot of us didn't pretty much everybody
didn't know a whole lot and then we
ended up in this situation where and now
my general take on it
we we are in a what I would call a
tactical retreat so I'm going to use a
military term there to describe what we
are doing we all of a sudden ran into a
hail of gunfire okay like and I think
about this in military terms were on a
patrol we run into a hail of gunfire
we're not really sure what hit us we
have a basic idea we know who they are
we know generally what the enemy is but
we weren't quite sure how to combat it
so we took a retreat tactically speaking
that retreat looks a lot like a lockdown
okay don't talk to anybody don't don't
touch anybody maintain that social
distancing lock things down we have to
slow the spread and allow our backup our
public health system to catch up at a
certain point we have to come out of
that tactical pause we have to come out
of that retreat and start engaging in
the enemy a little bit now we do that
slowly when we do it carefully and so I
think that's the I like to look at it
that way as the conversation about how
to reopen society at a certain point we
have to move away from risk containment
and room move into a risk mitigation
strategy and we're ramping up our
production of things like ventilators of
PPE of testing capability in order to do
that now there's some talk of when this
is going to end and I don't know how you
even make that distinction how does one
make a decision and it seems like one of
those things where once it starts once
you lock a country down and tell people
stay away stay home don't go to work
don't do anything unless it's very
essential like grocery stores hospitals
media there's certain things that are
allowed to be done right now when is
that end and how does one decide when
that ends yeah there's a lot of
different ways to think about that from
from the public health perspective I
hear them
say certain things like after 14 days of
a downward trend in cases then we can
start reopening when the R is less than
1 then you can start reopening so R
being less than 1 means for every
contagious person they infect less than
one other person right now that numbers
are at just over 2 ok so there's there's
an obvious spread that occurs that I
have I think those are valid assumptions
I definitely question using those as our
standards I would like to see us use
other standards as well such as are we
at a point where we're testing enough
and we have enough ventilators and
hospital bed space and PPE to actually
fight the virus alongside reopening
there our society because I think we
have to come to terms with a very
certain truth which is we cannot
indefinitely lock down those costs are
enormous and they're not just cost to
our 401ks and our jobs I mean there's a
public health cost there too you know I
speak with doctors here in Houston we
don't we don't have a huge case number
in Houston where our hospitals are like
50% empty right now and they can't do
much needed surgeries procedures because
you know what's called an elective
surgery is gonna be kind of a gray area
so a lot of stuff isn't getting done
from a public health side also there's
there's there's I think the obvious
public health crisis when people don't
have jobs there's divorce race there's
suicides we have to really take all of
this into account as we as we talk about
when to reopen society yeah we you and I
privately had this conversation through
text messages about the way reporters
are using this moment to criticize Trump
with in ridiculous ways and one of them
was this questioning of whether or not
he should describe these drugs that have
some promise which many doctors are
describing hydroxychloroquine with z-pak
and zinc apparently is a combination
that keeps getting brought up and
there's a doctor that has been using
this to some reported success in New
York City
but what drives me crazy is that these
are rare opportunities that someone has
to talk to the president and they're
using it to chastise him for bringing up
drugs that do show promise and hope he's
not telling people to go take it he's
not advocating it he's not pretending
that he's some sort of a medical
professional he's just talking about
some things that show promise in the
medical community you know what what is
your take on all this because this is a
it's a weird situation that he finds
himself in with the press this very
strange and antagonistic position yeah
you know the press needs to figure out
who they want to be and it's actually
like chapter two in my book it's called
who is your hero and that in that
conversation is about who we think we
should be like what what kind of people
do we think we should be what does it
mean to be a good American a good
citizen the press believes it is their
duty to only be adversarial to to
politicians mostly conservative
politicians they don't treat Democrats
the same way but and that is their job
okay I wish they would treat all all
politicians the same and intuitive to an
extent that is their job to be
adversarial to question what is coming
out of government but I would argue that
their main purpose is to simply educate
the public educate the public with full
that's a fax full context full
understanding of what's going on I think
on that point they're utterly failing
I'm into to a huge extent I think I've
been feeling for a long time but in a
time of crisis where it's so important
that they actually do that that that
more important thing of informing the
public they're really failing and they
they do they completely waste time I
mean how many reporters actually get
access to the president I bet there's
hundreds of thousands of reporters out
there good ones who would who would love
to be able to be in that press briefing
room and actually asked legitimate
questions that would inform the American
public but but they don't they play
these gotcha games you know the last
questions like what do you want to say
to people who are upset with you right
now
it's like what how is how does that a
good question how does a news right in
the middle of Japan I mean I mean it was
it's so utterly absurd
and an unnecessary actually whole list
of questions I don't wanna read of all
but they're there they're a complete
waste of time
and I think they're failing us miserably
and then there's the opportunism that
occurs like listen there's if you're
writing an op-ed if you're a journalist
writing an op-ed we'll say an opinion
journalists especially I fully
understand why you you might you might
say you might write in your report
okay the president said this today but
three weeks ago they said this so
there's been a change that's fine that
makes total sense that provides context
of the reader even it might be biased
and that whatever but but but - but -
onlys do that indirect questioning with
the president just to try and play this
gotcha game I it's not helpful it's not
help at all and it's not informing
anybody in the least you know you
mentioned the the president talking of a
verbal II about the chloroquine or
hydroxychloroquine and you remember the
the couple that ingested that out in
Arizona because that something something
similar to I think it's a core
chloroquine phosphate or something like
that it might be Mississippi cane its
points like that's ending yeah it's an
ingredients on fish bowl cleaner yeah
fish tank cleaner so they saw it and
they ingested it which was obviously a
terrible idea
nobody would nobody told them to do that
and then the media the media instead of
saying wow this is a shame that they did
this they blame the president and they
blamed the president for talking about
what what is a at least anecdotally a
proven way to to combat this disease we
don't know through clinical trials
whether in mass it'll actually work but
but to express optimism over it seemed
to be a punishable offense but the
outraged mob is it was fully invested in
this kind of outrage reasoning to to
tear down the president over this and
it's just it just feels so unnecessary I
mean oh it's right it's why I wrote this
book but the book is about outrage
culture an hour an hour like this sort
of weird new cultural need to just go
after each other in the worst of ways it
is there's a new ability to do that I
mean this is what is with these new to
that people have through social media
and through making these viral video
clips which is what each reporter is
hoping is they're going to accomplish by
being combative with the President and
trying to catch him on something they're
hoping that they're going to create this
viral video that's gonna accelerate
their career it's it's very self
aggrandizing it's and it's disturbing
that there's there's not someone who
stands out that does these sort of press
junkets that doesn't do that yeah and I
actually write about that exact point in
my book like this what we've begun to do
is reward this sort of I would say
overly passionate emotional behavior so
we've replaced sophisticated reasoning
with outrage you know we we've started
to change who we actually view as heroes
this is how I describe it we all have
hero archetypes okay and like and we
grew up this way and there's there's
like fictional characters like the Jedi
like it so that's like a hero archetype
or Superman we kind of look up to this
person or or like or like real
characters like Rosa Parks or Jesus like
there's there's people that we actually
look up to and we identify with and
there's certain attributes that we use
and we say I want to be like that and so
when I act in public I'm going to I'm
going to I'm going to access that
attribute I'm gonna be better and
according according to that archetype
and we sort of turn that on its head
and in our in our current outrage pop
culture like we see somebody who plays
the victim and we cheer them on
well reality what we used to do is see
somebody who overcame adversity who was
the true hero and then we cheered them
on we've totally reversed that yeah and
like so and so until you actually get
more points if yours more snarky if
you're meaner if you're if you're if
you're playing this kind of cheap-shot
game and like in my book I use this
example of like these is this group of
veterans they they were waiting for me
at my office I was going and I knew
something was off because veterans my
age they we never we're the like the
ballcap you know looking with the gold
letters that say veteran on it we never
wear that but these guys were wearing
that so that was that was my first sign
that something was different about these
guys but they just asked for a picture
and I figured that was it no we'd keep
going
but uh the second thing that was off was
like they they weren't they weren't
looking at the camera
they were fiddling as I was like posing
for this camera for this photo and I
thought that was strange and it turns
out they were just getting their own
video camera ready to record and then
they start following me and like just go
nuts like they lose their minds
I'm talking about Trump and you know
betraying the country and just all this
nonsense and so they were just trying to
have a gotcha moment with you yeah yeah
yeah this is what they do they're
they're an activist group and they'll
corner people like me and try and get
like a viral video going and and then
you know it's up to me at that point to
just like understand what's happening it
just kind of walks silently and I kind
of engage with them and some funny ways
but they were they were becoming
extremely emotional I mean their voices
started to crack it was which was you
know and what are they saying about you
or to you how could you how could you
let how could you betray the country by
supporting the president I mean things
like that it mostly sloganeering like
this wasn't a like a deep conversation
by any means but but that's the point
the point is is that they're rewarded
for that like overly emotional in motion
like you know filming while while
walking type of type of scenario and
then they like and then there's this
whole deal where I have to get in the
elevator because that's how I get to the
votes like I I leave my my office on the
fourth floor and Canon I take the
elevator down in the basement I walk
across like that's just my route and so
but what they do is as I get into the
elevator they're like Joe he's hiding
from us he's running away from us in the
Newsweek like writes up the same story
like there's this there's this entire
culture behind this notion that you
think that you that you have to use as
much emotion as possible and as an
express your anger in in the most
exceptional of ways otherwise it's not
worth listening to but we haven't
stopped as a cold Stern we have to stop
rewarding and that's what I talked about
we have to stop rewarding that kind of
behaviors that it actually ceases to
control us that way well they
accomplished what they wanted to do
we're talking about them right now
although you didn't give up their name
good for you no but you you talked about
them and that's what they wanted I mean
there's so many groups out there that
are I don't even know if they have
an end game the end game seems to just
get attention and you know and shine the
light on these atrocities or whatever
whatever they feel like is an atrocity
it is attention it happens on both sides
I'm pretty careful in my book to
actually criticized both sides on this
one because it ways I do see it in the
conservative circles it's it's different
the the kind of outraged culture that
happens in conservatism is certainly
different and less widespread then then
happens on the left it is more about
attention seeking and and I always tell
people that if you're gonna if your main
goal is getting more followers and more
clicks than you know you have to
reevaluate what your priorities are and
I worry about the activist community as
well which is activists sometimes don't
want to win they don't actually want to
win the argument and that should concern
us because at least politically speaking
my goal is to win the argument and to
win the argument I have to actually
persuade people and like that that
should be the goal we those lengthier
conversations again it's why these kind
of podcasts are so prevalent so I do my
own podcast because I wanted to dive
deep into some of these issues on a
substantive level well I do appreciate
your reasonable and balanced perspective
because you are one of the rare guys
that's on the right that does criticize
the right and do and you do it fairly
and objectively which i think is very
important in this day and age you know I
I'm on the left but I find myself more
and more getting confused like a man
without a country or man with you know
without a side rather without a team
there's there's so many people on the
left now that wanna silence people
freedom of speech was always a core
tenet of what this country is based on
the ability to express yourself but
there's so many people that want people
deep platformed for having views that
they disagree with or ideas that they
disagree with and this is an enormous
problem obviously in social media well
bringing it back to coronavirus there
there was there was certain messages
that were being taken down by twitter if
they were and I and I think these the
type of messages or articles that were
being promoted along the lines of hate
there's there's too much economic cost
we need to mean to reopen the economy
and get people back to work if it was
things like that Twitter was taking them
down they're still doing that but I but
I heard reports of but and on a broader
scale yeah the the attack against
freedom of speech is is by far one of
the most concerning elements that
concerns I think classical liberals and
if that's how you would describe
yourself I don't know what but to all of
us in the political world Joe Rogan's
political leanings are like the great
mystery and frankly we kind of like it
that way it makes you it keeps you out
of the fray it's more than missing as I
said that I wouldn't vote for Biden that
I said I would vote for Trump over Biden
all these people went crazy everybody
but let me let me you know what I'd also
vote for Whoopi Goldberg over Joe Biden
I'd vote for Mike Tyson over Joe Biden I
just don't think it's a good idea to
take someone who's struggling with
dementia and put them in one of the most
stressful positions the world has ever
known
that's what I'm saying I mean it's not
an endorsement of Trump is it is a me
saying you shouldn't have a man who's
clearly clearly in the throes of
dementia I mean there's I'm not a doctor
but when you can't form sentences in
public and you forget what you're
talking about and you you're you wander
off into these conversations if you're
not smoking pot you're not high if
you're not on pills like what's going on
well there's cognitive decline he's an
older man that has mental issues and you
know not to be cruel to him he's he's
suffering medically this is it is the
real issue and the Democrats want to
sweep that under the rug and Trump is
already chewing him apart he's already
dismissing him I mean there is a recent
thing that Kyle kolinsky posted a video
on his Twitter talking about this is
what happens when you don't discuss the
elephant in the room and it's Trump
saying you used to do it during a press
conference and they asked him a question
about something that Biden wrote he goes
I didn't write that he's like he said
that's a democratic operative he didn't
read it he probably doesn't even know
what's going on right now and he's gonna
he's gonna continue to do that and it's
it's such a
point--and i I don't know why the
Democrats thought it would be a good
idea to take someone who's clearly got a
problem and this is I mean I don't want
to be mean to the guy we've all seen it
that's not normal
it's not normal to forget like when he's
talking about the creator and he
literally loses what he's saying he's
like you know the thing like the
Declaration of Independence yeah I mean
that's a very simple document there's a
bunch of those things like when he was
talking about the cure and losing what
he's saying that you have to take care
of the cure and he's he's struggling the
guy's struggling he's tired this is his
extremely stressful process to run for
president and the idea that he's going
to be able to get through this and be
okay on the other side to run the
country for for potentially eight years
is crazy
yeah and on a more from a policy
perspective if we're looking at the
coronavirus in particular and the
handling of it you know this is
obviously the subject of hot debate you
know there's there's plenty of bad faith
journalists out there who who continue
and politicians including Pelosi who
continue to repeat that Trump has the
the deaths of thousands on his hands I
think that's a horrible horrible
overstatement I mean to say the least
it's just fundamentally not true but we
need to remember Joe Biden just recently
acknowledged that he now agrees with
Trump's decision to close down travel
from China in January and I go through a
long I've recorded a podcast I almost
have as many subscribers as you do now
I'm sure ya know I don't where I go
through a timeline of what actually
happened right like let's let's actually
look into this debate in an objective
way of who knew what and when because
you can criticize people for sure and
cuz hindsight is 20/20 but it's
important to put yourself in the moment
and what we all knew at certain times
the certain decisions were made and I
have to point out that that when we did
this travel restriction from China in
late January at that same time the World
Health Organization was saying that was
repeating Chinese claims in mid-june
worried that this virus couldn't even be
transmitted in human to human contact
you know and Trump was ripped apart for
that but I didn't ripped him apart for
that but I didn't continue to rip him
apart for that up until a couple weeks
ago so like you know these decisions
saved countless lives and and it's
pretty obvious that Biden I mean he said
it so of course it's obvious that he
would have made a different decision and
we would be in a much different place
right now to put aside all of the issues
that you pointed out those are those are
certainly issues and I don't need to
repeat them underneath to go into it but
it's um I feel like we do it is obvious
but that's crazy that this is the guy
that's running for president you know
and then when people got upset at saying
that you know me and me saying that I
would vote I'd probably vote for Trump
before I would vote for Biden I'm
literally saying I'd vote for anybody
that can talk I mean anyone who's not in
in severe cognitive decline I mean pick
a person should I vote for Hillary
before I'd vote for him literally I mean
I just I just think the poor guy
shouldn't be in the position he's in I
don't understand why they're doing that
I mean anyone else could have been Tulsi
Gabbard Amy Klobuchar people to judge
pick a person they all would have been a
better choice I mean this is crazy and I
don't know what their strategy is I
don't know why they decided to do this
it makes no sense to me it's very very
confusing yeah there was a there was a
couple days where it all happened where
you know behind the scenes all of these
different candidates basically basically
said okay we're all gonna quit because
we are so afraid of Bernie winning they
don't think Bernie can can win the
Democratic nominee or to win the general
election I tend to agree with that and
I'm I you know I'm very much against
Bernie winning the general election but
that's not the point the point is is
that the DNC didn't want that they and
and they made moves to make that happen
and the Democratic Party as a whole is
trying to find out who they are you know
I look back in time and the Democrat
Party to me seems more like a Labor
Party and that changed over time into a
highly progressive
activist party where the labor side of
that is really just an afterthought and
in and it has really become this sort of
well a Democratic Socialist Party when
do you think that happened to make its
toll very recently because I wouldn't
even describe President Obama as I mean
he definitely he definitely paved the
way for it
he's definitely way more progressive
than Clinton but it appears to me that
it happened very recently another
furious that how this happened I I think
I think the kind of language that is
often used by by a lot of well-meaning
Democrats over time and in this sort of
Labor Party era let's call it the Bill
Clinton era and before that the language
they used was still rather radical and
revolutionary and kind of you know
coming up from the the children of the
60s and that kind of revolutionary feel
there's this this idea that a
progressive utopia can solve more and
more of your problems if you just expand
government control that we put enough
experts at the top we can figure all
this out and we can make your problems
go away I think for a long time though
they had the Republican Party to always
just be against that and and say hold on
wait a second there's there's there's
other consequences to do it not and it
was almost like there was this sort of
this sort of unspoken balance the thing
and I'm not even sure that they believed
it themselves but over time their young
people did believe it and so now you
have a Ossie who I think truly believes
these things it truly believes in the
virtues of socialism I think Bernie
believes in the virtues of socialism I
think he's dead wrong on this but but he
believes it and I think a new generation
billion II generation of progressives
are true believers in a way that I'm not
so sure they were before and they're
much louder because of their platforms
on social media and they're able to
change the direction of their party in a
much more powerful way than I think they
they had been able to in the past and we
see that in Congress to an extraordinary
degree where where somebody like me now
views Pelosi is sort of in the middle
between moderates and extremists and and
you know ten years ago we would have we
would have described Nancy Pelosi as an
extremist but now I view her as sort of
center-left and the extremists are even
to her left and she's deeply afraid of
those those that progressive squad
because of their power on social media
and media in general so it's an
interesting battle do you think that
this shift is because it seems like
nothing works perfectly and this hasn't
really been tried or implemented on a
large scale in the United States
democratic socialism they don't think of
it as socialism the way birdy describes
it when you talk to him in person it
sounds very reasonable he says it sounds
like he's looking out for the rights of
the workers and he the way he described
finding this money just taking a small
tax on speculation Gamble's that Wall
Street does do you think it's because
nothing has worked
ideally and that this hasn't been tried
before so they look at this as this
could be the solution that solves all
this for us and sort of balances out the
economic playing field yeah well I mean
I would of course he was making that
argument he does I would simply say of
course it's been tried before that's the
same kind of rhetoric that was used to
to move into the socialist policies of
the twentieth century
we're tens of millions of people died
and we're also I would also put it into
this other way of thinking about it yeah
you can you can put forward these these
seemingly innocuous ideas okay we're
gonna we're gonna tax a little bit here
and on that specific policy by the way
that that's not what people think it is
you tax a little bit there that has
wide-ranging effects on every single
transaction that you would make in the
stock market I think this is the Warren
and I think Bernie Sanders has the same
policy that you're describing but I
remember I remember analyzing Elizabeth
Warren's policy which is again the same
it would have drastic effects on
everybody swore oh one K's on pensions
and these are working-class people that
owned these things this isn't just the
wealthy that they that they describe it
as so on one hand there's always a lot
more there's a lot more layers to the
policy that they put out then they're
then they're really letting on and
there's a lot more second third order
consequences than they're letting on on
the other hand as far as it not being
tried
what they're describing is a is a fast
path to the the nationalization of
production the owning the means of
production setting price controls and
they talk about setting price controls
okay
setting setting wages is price controls
setting prices well is price controls I
mean we passed a bill out of the house
HR 3 which they claim lowers people's
drugs drug prices and these evil
Republicans like us we're all against it
because you know because we just don't
want people to have low drug prices of
course that's not true the reality is is
that when you analyze what it means to
implement price controls you lose supply
that's just economics 101 that that has
to be true it always is true but that's
why people starved in Maoist China and
the Soviet Union because they put price
controls on food and they did production
quotas and they believed they truly
believed that the government could
figure out how much to produce and what
price to sell it at and that they would
be a perfect utopia after that well of
course it doesn't work even for simple
as something as simple as farming and
food production it doesn't work at all
people starved as a result and so it's
even more unlikely that it would work
for more complicated parts of the
economy like wages and drug prices
because the reality is in the
Congressional Budget Office confirm this
many other studies confirm this we would
have up to 30 less new drugs over the
next couple decades if you implement
that kind of legislation and so they
forget to tell you that you're actually
making a choice between these price
controls and actually having the cure in
the first place and what I tell people
is like the affordability is definitely
important and we should continue to
tackle that problem and and there are
ways to do that but the thing has to
exist before you can afford it it has to
actually exist can I pause you for a
second then how do you implement that
without making putting a cap on the
amount that a drug can cost I mean how
do you make it more affordable well so
like well there's other bills that we're
in favor of that do that so one way is
is improve the way that generic drugs
get to market so just like any
innovation there's a patent
okay well once that patent ends what
happens is some pharmaceutical companies
do take advantage of the system and
maybe they continue to put out different
drugs that are slightly different than
the last one it extends their their
their patent or they'll actually pay off
generic manufacturers to not produce it
so there's a lot of these little
loopholes that we can actually tackle
surgically and make sure that doesn't
happen we also have to remember the a
lot of these stories are are anecdotal
they they they are they are about a few
different drugs and instead of instead
of wide price controls on everything
that a pharmaceutical company actually
creates we should be looking at some of
these life-saving drugs that we want
people to have but we also want to don't
want to destroy the foundation of
innovation and research and development
that it took to make that drug in the
first place
and so how do we do that well I mean
there's ways there's there's ways to
reinsure it at a certain caps equipment
when insurance companies don't want to
pay the exorbitant amounts that it would
cost you know there's there's other
options for reinsurance but it's it's
you have to tackle it one at a time
there's there's more complicated ways to
do it with the way that pharmacy
companies do rebates with the insurance
companies that gets into a really
complicated discussion but there's ways
to do that for instance for insulin that
was a Republican bill that we tried to
pass in ENC that got shot down but it
would have it would have driven down
prices for something like insulin was
there anything else you catch to that I
mean wanted to get shot down
that was just an amendment because
people don't understand it listen I I
think I think Democrats they they love
the idea of these very simple fixes we
want things to be cheaper so they will
just be cheaper by law we want people to
make more money so we will just make the
minimum wage $15 we'll just may get it
that way and everything will be fine but
we know consequences to that know second
third order effects but there are second
and third order effects and when we
ignore those second and third order
effects we ignore them at our peril and
in the case of the $15 minimum wage well
you can't ignore the fact that companies
are just gonna hire less people you know
their their budget doesn't change just
because you change the minimum wage with
respect the drug in a
they're just they just won't invest in
something and it takes billions and
billions of dollars to invest in these
drugs for the massive amounts of cost
that it takes to to do the clinical
trials that take years that I can't
remember the average on top of my head
but it's enormous and an enormous amount
of time and so you're not gonna get
somebody to take that risk if there's
not any payoff at the end and I think
that's that's what we forget we have to
balance that quite a bit I would also
remind everybody of this with respect to
the drug price discussion that bill that
HR 3 bill it won't become law because
the Senate won't take it up and the
president will sign it but if it did it
wouldn't hurt big pharma I think
Democrats would like to believe that it
would hurt big pharmaceutical companies
it wouldn't it would put all of the
smaller start-up biotech companies
totally out of business because they're
the ones who actually they start that
innovation just this just like happens
in Silicon Valley these startups start
and then they get bought out by the
bigger companies that's sort of how the
system works and it's a very dynamic
system that's it's it's why we are the
by far the number one innovator in the
world no other country innovates like we
do they don't do the research like we do
if we implemented the price controls
that are inherent and medicare for all
or HR 3 there wouldn't be anybody else
in the world doing what we do
I can relate that back to the
coronavirus discussion too on because
there's the there's like a there's a big
discussion about you know should we have
Medicare for all doesn't coronavirus
prove that everybody should have free
health care and again what I what I have
to remind everybody is is that if we had
Medicare for all what we're basically
talking about our price controls because
Medicare already pays the low average
payment for for anything well for
whatever service were over for whatever
doctor visit it's about 60 70 percent on
the dollar
what was that stop your return Medicare
is available for whoo right now what was
the seniors the Medicare is a senior
program but it's so what it what age is
it does it kick in is it 65 I believe so
I yeah I don't want to confuse it with
Social Security so the I
for older folks we should give them
healthcare and make sure that their
basic needs are covered in terms of
sickness illness injury and such yeah
yeah I mean the entire you know we could
argue that we could we could even debate
the merits of Medicare on its face but
Medicare for hire would be available for
everybody
now if Medicare for for all was
available for everybody what you're
saying is it was essentially you you
would fix prices on everything in terms
of medical treatments and and that would
be a problem because of what well so
okay so once you fight once you fix
prices well imagine this and imagine if
if if the government said that your
podcast could could only take a hundred
dollars per ad and that was just the
price fix from now on what incentive
would you have to really expand your
audience what expensive ones incentive
would you have to keep going or expand
the business you wouldn't be able to
it's similar under any industry once you
once you fix that price you're going to
reduce the supply that goes into I
stopped doing that analogy yeah here's
the problem with that the difference is
if they would have to be a reason why
they would say that I could only get a
hundred dollars for add the reason why
you would say that things shouldn't cost
too much for someone who's injured or
sick is because we want to take care of
each other as a community and the idea
is that health care should be something
that we provide so many services to
people that we we are United right who
are you the United States of America
we're supposed to be a gigantic
community and one of the great things
that we could do for each other is to
make sure that if someone's sick or
injured and something's wrong that we
can take care of that we would like
everybody to do their share and we would
like everybody to chip in so that this
is possible but there's a big difference
between that and fixing the price on an
ad well no but not economically there's
no difference morally there is and I
agree with you morally we do have the we
have the same goal of getting everybody
out of quick care right but standpoint
but from an economic standpoint my point
still stands and you can apply that to
any industry I see what you're saying
but I think we're looking
the medical care is a basic human right
instead of just an economic issue the
reason I don't describe it is it it's
not in your write it is both a moral and
an economic issue further i argument
that you will reduce supply that is
fundamentally true it is fundamentally
true we see in other countries it's why
as we compare ourselves to other
countries right now all these places
with socialized medicine it's it's
important to look at some stats and
actually I have them here I could take
the time to pick them up but I'll but
all but I'll give you the bottom line up
front we have overwhelmingly per capita
more ICU beds in this country than any
other Western country overwhelmingly per
capita we have more ventilators than any
of these other people we're all we're
all freaking out right now because we're
worried about our ventilators and in our
ICU beds on a per capita basis our
system has way way more than the UK then
Italy than Spain and Germany all of them
like like orders of magnitude more okay
so okay also we're the ones who innovate
I mean the vast majority of research and
development new drugs that come out that
comes from this country so these are
these are facts that we can't escape if
we do price controls and
medicare-for-all is fundamentally a
system of price controls if we do that
economically speaking we absolutely will
reduce supply I understand the moral
argument you're making which is we still
want to help people yes we should we
should be looking for the ways to do
that but I want to be able to do that in
a way that doesn't undercut the
foundations of the good parts of our
healthcare system which is quality and
innovation if we undercut those things
we're the last country doing this we're
the last country in the world and truly
doing innovation the world is left out
to dry
see there the this what you're saying
makes a lot of sense is there a way to
do both is there a way to provide health
care to everyone but also encourage this
innovation encourage profit so you
encourage these companies to do all
these great things that you're
describing and and and maintain this
incredibly high level of healthcare that
we have right now that's certainly the
goal right and that that should be the
goal and this is why I think there's
there's got to be room for compromise on
the healthcare debate because you
can't compromise with the other party if
the goals aren't the same like I've come
to believe that our goals on immigration
are actually not the same okay so it's
hard to compromise on health care they
should be the same like because we we we
want everybody to have access to quality
health care now they have a very
different way of getting to that point
we have probably a much more complicated
we recognize how difficult it is to get
to that point while also ensuring that
we maintain quality and an innovation
and so what I'm working on personally is
is the primary care side of things
okay so primary care doctor is your
that's your first point of contact in
health care and the system that I think
works best for that is direct primary
care so direct primary care basically
means that you Joe you're a doctor you
can handle about 250 300 patients at a
time they all pay you a subscription fee
of about $75 a month and they have full
access to you so it's like less than a
cell phone bill this already exists this
model is prevalent it's growing I would
like to see it grow much faster okay how
do you do that well we can't subsidize
lower income people in order to do that
how we do that is very complicated
that's what I'm working out and within
our complicated system but that's an
idea to one make that free market model
actually take off so that people who
don't need help with their healthcare
costs like like you and me we can still
afford that just like we afford any
other monthly cost and you have access
to preventive medicine you have access
to telemedicine you actually have a
doctor-patient relationship that makes
it a lot easier to start solving the
rest of the problem making our insurance
market more competitive making putting
more choice in it directly subsidizing
those who need it but in a way that
looks a lot more like Medicare Advantage
so Medicare Advantage is a part of
Medicare that basically forces
competition and choice between insurance
companies it came out to be a lot
cheaper than we originally thought it
would in the early 2000s when when this
thing was created this was a Republican
plan because there's certain foundations
that I think we have to adhere to any
time we want to problem solve choice and
competition are among them you you can't
escape those things and I think when we
talk about Medicare for all it tries to
it tries to move past these essential
foundation and
whether of a free society that we have
to adhere to and and because the other
thing I I push back on a little bit is
the health care as a right statement and
I push back against that because with
that when you're calling something a
right what you're effectively saying is
that somebody else has a obligation to
serve you and it's hard to call
something a right when that right
requires the service of somebody else
don't make picky don't we already do
that with the firemen don't we do that
with the police department don't we do
that with public schools not exactly no
I mean we have public services that I
would I would distinguish those public
services from something like a Rex
quantum of care and I would distinguish
them to an enormous extent like but you
and here's why you can add a few hundred
thousand more people to a you know to to
the nation's population and it doesn't
change the mission of the military right
like it doesn't it doesn't take an away
thing away from them but these but
because of this sort of non-rival ii and
economics term but the sort of non-rival
attribute of these things it is
different right because there's only a
select number of doctors and we've
already said that once you put price
controls in there's going to be less
doctors because doctors will be paid
less they'll get burned out more they'll
then Possible's will be able to actually
never finish that point the reason price
controls reduce supply and we reason we
see supply reductions in other countries
is because well hospitals don't get the
same amount of money they're not going
to invest in that extra ICU but they're
not going to buy those extra ventilators
they're not going to hire those other
doctors a doctor doesn't want to be a
doctor because they don't make the
amount of money that they thought they
would make they're doing extra work
because there's more people who now have
access to them but there's less of them
so wait lines are huge and then and
they're seeing multiple more patients a
day doctor burnout increases quite a bit
that's the quick answer as to why why
that happens but does that kind of
answer your question it's getting really
that does yeah the human right issue we
we kind of moved around with that this
the the idea that it's different than
the fire department or
police department or well it's not a
right either actually the the fire
department is not necessarily a a right
as we would but it's a public service
that's provided to everyone now it is
but it but understand so let's call it a
public service then and let's call
doctor healthcare a public service okay
well if we were to do medicare for all
but wouldn't the result be the same if
it's provided for everyone
not from a practical standpoint just
because it's much easier again you could
add a hundred thousand people more to
your city and the fire department would
have marginally more more work to do you
know compared to like a doctor for
instance does that make sense like you
just it doesn't I think on a if you're
trying to compare them in that sense
that that non-rival attributes matter it
matters quite a bit if I'm describing
that so what you're saying is because
competition is necessary with medical
innovation and also like doctors profit
off of being exceptional so you you they
have incentive to being exceptional no
no what I'm saying is if you have if you
have ten doctors that's that are serving
a community every time that doctor is
serving somebody it means somebody else
can't see them well isn't that just as a
signal that we need more doctors and
more hospitals it is their understanding
it it would be yes but I'm saying that's
how it's different from a fire
department which is sort of lying in
wait for a fire to occur well if there
was more fires
yeah but it is unlikely most of the time
I'm just I'm trying I'm trying to
distinguish why those why those aren't
very comparable things like what why one
is more of a public service that that we
see to work well while the other
wouldn't necessarily be in friction and
you kind of just said it yourself it
would be a signal for there to be more
doctors which is why the free market
price price points are so important
because the only way to signal that is
to actually that demand raises prices
when the government tries to do that now
there's this theory of the socialist
that they would say the government can
just figure that out
I would say that they've tried that in
the past it never works it never it just
it never ever works the government can't
possibly be so omniscient as to know
every single price signal and and
anticipate every single piece of demand
and production that is therefore
required and so you know it's not just
healthcare that this is a problem it's
it's every aspect of society so if I can
go back to what you're saying earlier
you so what you're essentially saying
about socialism that socialism looks at
this problem it says hey let's make the
government take care of everything let's
take money from the wealthy people and
pour it into the government and that the
government will then have resources take
care of these issues and you'll you're
just looking at the first step of the
problem you're not looking at the
secondary or tertiary the instances or
things that are going to go sideways
once you do implement that first step is
that we're saying it's a hundred percent
what I'm saying I would I would add
social needs out some very important
things like like human nature for
instance and and this the this notion
that we need incentives socialism
doesn't believe and incentives doesn't
believe that we need incentive to do
things there's there's this there's this
utopian belief among the most hard-core
socialist that that humans will act in
this in this kind of philanthropic
manner no matter what like we're going
to do the most amount of work even if
that reward is is overwhelmingly taken
away from us and redistributed but of
course that's not how it would actually
function in reality yeah you would start
to you it just wouldn't right and so
you're now maybe for a few people a few
altruistic people would be the ones you
know doing all the work while everybody
else is like pretending to work which
was it happened in the Soviet Union you
pretend to pay us we'll pretend to work
right look that was the saying from the
Soviet Union that's I I think we
intuitively understand that and and and
and when that happened again the same
thing with Medicare for all if you're if
you have price controls your incentives
change and if we're if we're not really
serious about understanding that aspect
of these of these policies then we're
not thinking through them correctly and
I don't understand a lot of Democrats
would say well it's Medicare for all
it's not
socialism and I'm like yeah but it but
it has very socialistic tendencies and
it has these qualities that I've
described of not taking into account the
second third order effects of removing
human incentive of of forcing somebody's
services and because you're calling it a
right which means that you now have a
right to somebody else's services like
these are these are things that have
been proven not to work and and I think
we and I think we have to understand
that as we try to move towards the
mutual goal of getting everybody access
to health care
well it doesn't with everything but it
doesn't that work with the fire
department isn't the fire department in
a lot of ways a socialist institution no
no I again I still say it is not because
it is not under any obligation to serve
everybody that that demands its service
right it's therefore specific emergency
service as a as a public good but it's
there for fire if there's a fire they
come in and help you there's not a
financial incentive for them to do so
right but I mean but but on a practical
level on a practical level though
imagine the scaling that has to occur if
you're if you're doing that with medical
with medical care and I and I think
that's and I think that's the difference
with from an economic point and a
practical standpoint right so we're
talking about over what you're talking
about socialism overall not just over
I'm not just involving medicine you're
talking about socialism in general and
I'm saying isn't the fire department and
an example of socialism that works it's
definite not an example of socialism I
think it's an example of a public good
the way the military is an example of a
public good the way the highways are
examples of public goods the way parks
are exam right but they're funded by the
people it's funded by people overall it
doesn't cost people money to use them
and the people have these as a basic
part of our society and our civilization
no I understand that and I have nothing
no promise that I just I just would not
call them socialists to call the fire
how does it get funded it's a public
good how does it get funded it's a
public good it's if it's funded by the
public right and it's just it's not
it's but it's not relying on these sort
of it's not relying on the tenets of
socialism to function and so that now
we're now we're kind of having a
discussion of definitions and this is an
important discussion to have because
oftentimes even Democrats aren't really
talking about socialism well even during
a Bernie Sanders doesn't call it
socialism he's talking about democratic
socialism and he makes some very clear
distinctions between the two of them
which I think you could apply to things
like the fire department or the police
department yeah there's a lot in that so
I think Bernie yes he does say
democratic socialism I think he does
mean much something much much closer to
socialism and that's just me gleaning
from his policies because he does talk
about putting you know government
control on corporate boards Elizabeth
Warren talked about the same thing so
now we really are talking about
nationalizing things when you're talking
about mass price controls across all
industries on wage controls you really
are talking about more of an actual
socialism again going back to the
weather a fire department or a park or a
public highway or the military is a
socialist institution again I would I
would I would really push back against
that that is a that is a public good
we've never in our culture in our
economics we've never defined these
things as socialist institutions now
socialist institution effectively means
you're not you're you're you're seizing
the means of production and you're
forcing everybody into a centralized
planning State you'reyou're you're
telling people what they will earn and
and what you will pay them how much they
can sell you know you start to take more
control over the economy a lot of the
policy set out by Bernie Sanders are
movements in that direction the fire
department is is really not that again
that is that is a public surface it has
a defined you know it has a defined
budget it has a defined role it doesn't
it doesn't meet any of those other
attributes or elements that I that I
described when I described what a
socialist is and so this gets into
another question like well why maybe
Bernie just means the Nordic countries
right and you know I remember the
foreign minister from Denmark came to
Harvard I think he gave a speech as a
few years ago and he said stop calling a
socialist we're not socialists
where we're probably with it and I would
agree with them all these Nordic
countries have frankly more of a free
market than we do in many ways when we
look at their regulatory standards
they're they're quite liberal when we
look at their corporate tax rates it's
very low they don't have a minimum wage
in many cases and so you know they're
not socialist countries what they do
have is a very generous welfare state
and and that's different than even that
is different than socialism it's a giant
welfare state now I'm still against that
in many ways I think there's
consequences to that giant welfare state
that that they now have to suffer with
as a result and and if you've noticed
too that they did they actually used to
be very socialist countries but their
economies Craster as a result in over
time they became much more free market
we see the same thing out of Israel we
see the same thing out of India used to
be much more deeply socialist countries
a lot of them have just maintained their
big welfare states which they are having
trouble paying for just like we're
having trouble paying for our big
welfare state which is mostly based on
Social Security Medicaid and Medicare
when you say public good right this is
what you feel that the fire department
is it's a public good right what do you
think that it's possible to implement
something like that within regards to
medical care yeah yeah I mean so this is
a discussion if we get our definitions
straight we're just saying okay we just
want another public good and a medical
so that's it's a more accurate way of
describing it I think people don't care
about what's called right we just want
health care no right but but then we get
back to the discussion we had before
okay what if we did that well there's a
cost to it and it's a hell of a lot more
than the fire department and police
department the cost by by most estimates
is in the mid 30-something trillion
dollars another cost on for over ten
years so about about three and a half
trillion per year
so that's basically doubling our budget
just every year that's in addition to
what we already spent okay so that's
additional federal spending some some
people try to massage those numbers and
say oh but but that's actually cheaper
than
what we have now if you add it all
together that is false that is that is
completely false again I have a whole
podcast where I actually interviewed the
guy who made that study the Economist
who did that study and that's not a
controversial study everybody basically
agrees Elizabeth Warren's plan was 50
something trillion dollars that's adding
what we already spend to the new
spending that would have to occur so
what does that mean in practice it means
doubling or tripling your taxes unless
we try to deficit spend it which I think
would be crazy
so it means doubling or tripling your
taxes and so then and then the question
is okay fine well I do want to double or
triple my taxes I mean some people will
say that I don't actually believe them I
I bet once they got their taxes they
would totally change their mind but
let's say they're totally into it okay
let's say they actually want to do that
then you have the second and third order
consequences which is okay what are you
getting for this what is what is this
new utopia that we really live in where
healthcare is free and then I go back to
okay in order to meet that price point
of the the Brina app trillion a year
that's that's by the way assuming that
we continue using Medicare prices which
is what all the plans do assume by the
way so for doing that we're drastically
cutting prices that we pay doctors and
hospitals if we do that we drastically
cut our supply of doctors and hospitals
and we and we and we cut off and choke
off the innovative capacity that we do
have so we're losing those quality those
quality points again so how do you get
people care well the main problem we
have with health care in this country is
that it cost too much that's
fundamentally the problem it is too
costly and so from the Republican side
what we'd rather do is actually target
the source of the problem make it easier
to get insurance cuz right now I mean
you know it's for so many Americans that
insurance is just too expensive if you
have it through your employer it's
usually pretty good people are pretty
happy with that but for the most part
it's too expensive which is why I go
back to my direct primary care idea
because once you hit once you solve the
direct primary the primary care issue
you make solving insurance much easier
you can talk then you can still protect
people for existing conditions we like
things like either high-risk pools at
the state level or reinsurance program
you you can make this you can continue
to make improvements to the system that
make it affordable for people and get
people off access that they need well I
read of that sorry Brooke up there for a
second this whole connection of doing
things remotely sucks what did you can
you say that last night statement again
just still the last few words you said
you were talking about surance here's my
question yeah the whole thing like
insurance still has to pay for it then
it's still paying someone's still paying
for all this health care if the
insurance companies aren't making any
profit cuz they're paying for all the
health care then what happens then do we
fund the insurance companies I mean how
does all this stuff get evened out are
you referring to cases where you know
that the cost of somebody's care is so
astronomically expensive that even the
insurance company can't afford it well
look here's the problem right people
can't afford health care so we get them
insurance insurance takes care of health
care how did the insurance companies
make any money then well I mean they
make a profit just like just like
anybody else but but they're also that
they're they're also what we found is
especially with our experiments with
Medicare Advantage is when you pit
insurance companies against each other
in a in a free market they lower costs
you know they they are a natural there's
different there's different elements of
the health care system on one side is
driving up costs you know because the
doctor wants to keep doing more tests or
whatever it is or where a patient wants
to do more things the insurance
company's job is to say hold on a second
why are you doing this what is the
reason for this what's the outcome that
we expect from this so that naturally
drives that's that's a natural you know
bulwark against higher costs the
government was in a medicare-for-all
scheme the government would simply
replace that insurance company we we
should be very careful when assuming
that the government will somehow be
better at that than insurance companies
I'm not saying since companies are great
at all everybody doesn't seem to like
them but I also don't want the
government doing it I don't want to be
in a case like in Great Britain where
where the government will say you know
what your
Grandad's not on the ventilator anymore
we're done with that or your baby can't
get that care I mean we've all seen
these stories and we don't have that
issue in America but can I pause you
don't we have a problem with insurance
companies not want to pay for certain
things they might but they still but the
care still happens the hospital has to
eat that care a lot and there's there's
different funding mechanisms that
reimburse them yeah we have a really I'm
not defending our health care system I
want to be clear about that it's
definitely not perfect it's a huge
patchwork but no that doesn't that not
the way it happens over there because
over there like in Great Britain if you
actually nationalize the health care
system the way they do its when they say
you're not going to be on the ventilator
anymore there's no choice like that's
that that is that is the decision and
then that's what they have to deal with
and so it's it is different but don't
they have some private health care over
there as well I think they might have
elements of it and same with Canada but
but but not for basic care like so you
can eat fur for other kinds of health
care surgery sorry leo
yeah like elective stuff orthopedic
surgeries yeah and I'd have to really
get some details for you on what each
country does but it's it's it's limited
they limit what they can actually do I
don't want to get bogged down too much
in socialism but one of the things that
you said you said socialism has been
implemented before but it's never really
been implemented here right thank God
but this is what I was saying before
that I think that when people look at it
as an attractive notion one of the
things that attracts them to it is that
our system doesn't work that great and
that maybe this would be a system that
does serve people and there's a bunch of
buzz words and people use you know
wealth disparity economically
disadvantaged you know the working class
all these different these are words that
they use that this is maybe maybe
socialism would benefit those people and
there's more of them than there are the
elite and what do you say to that I
would say that there has been times in
this country where we had astronomical
tax rates and higher government control
and some things and we ended up with
skyrocketing inflation
and downward growth so I'm talking about
the 70s and the when Reagan came to
power we reversed a lot of that and
we've been in a pretty good good trend
ever since I I know that what I know
what people are saying and you repeated
it which is our system doesn't work well
well I want to actually want to push
back against the premise that our system
doesn't work the evidence for that is
not great I mean I think there's a lot
more evidence to suggest that we live in
the best time in modern history in
history in modern times it's it's hard
it's hard to argue otherwise so I would
agree there are certain there's I mean
there's certain problems that people
point to especially Millennials my
people my age housing is it is more
expensive our purchasing power isn't as
good with say things like housing and
health care these are true statements it
also depends on where you live the
problem Joe is people are identifying
issues they're not putting them into
context in perspective but even if the
right about the issues like hey our
purchasing power is lower with respect
to housing and health care two very
important things people are
misunderstanding why that is people
forgot to ask the question why is it why
is it that I can't afford this people
are instead jumping to a solution that
is frankly very shallow and simple which
is make housing cheaper make healthcare
cheaper how write a law say it's cheaper
well no that's not how it works we can't
just do that we have to first ask the
question like why did this happen so in
California let's talk about housing for
a second California and Texas don't have
the same problems and housing in Texas
is much easier to come by than it is in
California why is that well as it turns
out we don't have zoning here in Houston
you can build where you want to build
it's a much easier I talk to developers
who who develop here and develop
sometimes in California it's like four
times more expensive to develop because
of all the regulations in California
which means the housing itself is going
to be more expensive so what is it
government too much government control
frankly in San Francisco you can't build
anything else they don't allow building
high-rises full of apartment building so
it's no surprise that the supply is too
constricted and prices have to go
for the limp the intense amount of
demand that's out there we don't have
those same problems in Texas okay so
again it's like why is this happening
same with health care health care is not
a free market hasn't been and basically
forever and prices have gone up as a
result now health there's a lot more
complicated than housing and we've spent
a lot of time talking about it already
but we really have to ask ourselves why
something is is so expensive what we're
getting from that and then and then we
intelligently look at what are the
solutions to solve it California's a
mess in a lot of ways there's a lot of
problems but you really feel like the
the reason why San Francisco's housing I
mean it's gone up radically with the
tech boom I mean I think a lot of it is
supply and demand a lot of is just what
I mean but it's also people that have
ridiculous amounts of money and so the
wealth in San Francisco is so off the
charts that people are willing to buy a
stupid house for you know three million
dollars that really should be three
hundred thousand dollars in Texas yeah I
agree with you it is a supply and demand
issue and the supply hasn't caught up
with the demand that that's not that's
what I'm saying is like the the
government won't allow more supplies to
be built well the city to those yeah
that's fair but that's a and that's
totally fair and as a as a city people
in San Francisco might just decide we
don't want anybody else living here and
we don't want to build anything out but
what's weird they have no problem with
homeless people I mean the homeless
we've been to San Francisco I it's been
a while but but I have been there quite
a number of times and I was gonna say
like I spent ten years in San Diego San
Diego doesn't have these no well it's a
far more communal place and they just
they let big buildings get built you
know like I used to live in downtown San
Diego and when I was there it was one
way and now there's like 15 more
high-rises and the rent is basically
stayed the same
so which is good for renters it's bad
for owners and developers but you know
but the irony is like the populist kind
of left and right like a really mad
the owners and developers the owners of
capital right like kind of Marxist
screaming and yelling is all about but
the irony is that the policies they want
to implement help those people and if we
let more deregulation occur you're
helping the renters whose rent hasn't
changed in years and I know this like I
follow the market in San Diego very
carefully because we're still property
there and so I rent out to people I
haven't been able to I have not changed
the rent in years years and that's
because of upward supply and so again so
I guess my you're completely right it's
the supply demand issue in San Francisco
I thing is is like you have to choose
one or the other if you want prices to
go down you have to allow more supply if
you're comfortable with prices the way
they are and you don't want more people
moving into San Francisco well then fine
but you have to be comfortable with the
price is the way they aren't coming and
then deal with the homeless population
on top the homeless population is insane
I mean you've never seen anything like
it
Los Angeles as well go to downtown LA
and drive around it doesn't even seem
like it's real it does it seems like
it's a movie it's it's it's really sad
and there's there's no solution that's
on the table there's nothing that
anybody's like said that lrgate this is
what we're gonna do and this is our
ten-year plan and we're gonna clean this
up and we're gonna do XY and Z we're
gonna take care of this because there
didn't used to be 70,000 homeless people
in the city and there is now so
obviously something went wrong and over
a period of ten million years or ten
years rather 70 million people or
seventy thousand people and how many I'm
thrown out a bunch of numbers here that
don't make sense how many million people
live in LA it's like 20 million people
and there's 70,000 homeless people right
is it something like that that is a
crazy number 70,000 is a smile it's a
good-sized town it is and I wouldn't say
there's no solutions although there's no
solutions being proposed in California I
mean you're correct about that they
shake you're both solutions and make it
look to Houston for some ideas what have
they done you well we we took it
seriously one thing we do is a housing
first type of policy so you you offer
services but after you've gotten them
somewhere and maybe that place is a
warehouse but you actually you all
have to have a forcing function so
there's there's also a degree of
allowing this what is basically a crime
to take place in California whereas in
Texas we don't allow it
we're saying okay you just can't up on
the street yeah right it's just you so
that's the first thing like you have to
actually make it illegal but then put
systems in place to actually help them
but it but it does have to go in that
order
in in California their main problem is
that they they allow it and in Austin we
have this problem because Austin is a
very liberal City and so their instinct
was to do the same thing that they're
doing in San Francisco in LA
the governor stepped in said ok you know
what no we're actually just going to
solve this we're gonna put everybody
somewhere else we're gonna take them
away from you know cuz people are
camping out right outside businesses
down I can't right and so we took them
out and but but made sure that there was
some kind of access to hygiene to
porta-potties and then and then access
to you know social services that you
know get people back on their feet
there's also a good private like there's
a real like nonprofit sector in Houston
that works together very well with the
city over time a lot of private
investors I mean I went toward this like
this shelter it's mostly they try to
maintain it mostly for families but this
shelter with looks iceman you go into
this thing it looks like a like a new
college campus how nice it is and this
is 95 percent privately funded they take
some HUD money to to fund some of their
more longer-term like apartments that
they have there for people but this is
how people get access to new job
training and you know in this so that's
that it has to be a public-private
relationship and you have to have some
leadership that says we're just gonna
we're actually gonna try and solve this
problem is there anything on the table
like that for California I don't know
man I'm a I'm a Texas guy I there should
be I don't know I don't I don't know I I
could guess but I'd be speaking out of
turn I really I don't know what the what
the deal is I just know you guys are
sheltered in place it's growing like
barnacles here it's really strange I
mean I've been here since 94 and I've
never seen anything like the current
situation and like you said it's a crime
they're allowing to take place you can't
litter so how come you could just leave
your shit under the underpass I mean you
can't walk under under passes and a lot
of Los Angeles and I mean I'm not
exaggerating there's needles and cans
and garbage and cardboard and tents and
bikes it's nuts I mean it's really
really strange almost every underpass in
in certain parts of LA you'll find
homeless encampments yeah I mean it's
it's just it's a it's a stain on what
are they doing right now during
coronavirus lockdown
that's a question I don't know that
horse we're locked down so I don't mean
I go here I go to the grocery store I go
home that's basically all I've been
doing for a month and it's most people
that are following the regulations it's
all they're doing as well so I don't
know what they're doing I haven't seen
any talk about it I've seen the fact
that they had to shut down beaches
because people were just getting silly
and they're using it like a day off and
going to the beaches and being on top of
each other so they had a shutdown
parking at the beaches and they've
slowly tried to close the loopholes the
loopholes for knuckleheads basically
yeah is there is there an end date to
California's believe they're talking
about having it the end of April but I
think there was some talk about it now
being the end of May I don't find out
that out Jamie is there Jamie doesn't
ever left laptop in front of me because
we're doing this yeah I don't know you
know I don't I don't I mean I think it's
flexible too because if the if the case
is keep rising or they stop falling I
mean who knows there's you know health
care and this is a health care issue
obviously is so complicated and there's
so many levels to it but I mean I think
one of them that we really have to
address is diet and obesity there's
there's a giant problem with diet and
obesity in this country healthy food
eating eating the proper food and you
know I had a friend who said they were
talking about people who do drugs and
people who drink and you know maybe they
shouldn't get access to those same
health care and maybe that's a good
incentive to stop people from drinking
and doing drugs and I said yeah what
about people who do fad would it be up
people who were fat like you're gonna
use the same logic with them because you
can't fat shame so can you tell hey hey
fat so you can't get the same health
care that a healthy person does well if
you got a healthy person who likes to
drink and they run and they they jog but
they do like to drink and they
occasionally smoke a cigarette
what are they healthier than someone
who's morbidly obese yes they are so
would we have a problem as people who
don't self care we have a giant problem
with that people who don't take the
necessary steps personally now is this
because of education is it because of
ignorance is it because of a lack of
awareness of the consequences of of a
non healthy diet or eating poor foods or
consuming large amounts of alcohol or
tobacco products I don't know what it is
but that is a massive part of our
healthcare system as people who are not
doing the proper things to their own
body in terms of eating nutritious foods
hopefully that they can afford in terms
of exercise which is free for everybody
you know there's a lot of things you can
do that are free to take care of your
body yeah I agree
well I think it's indicative of a
problem in our culture where we've
started to sideline this notion of
personal responsibility I Chapter seven
in my book I forgot I got to talk about
my book at 42 available well now order
from your local bookstores you run
anymore any more help than Amazon did
you read the audiobook version of it
yeah good thank you for 14 hours very
important and I enjoy that some other
dork is reading for you I'd be very
upset
yeah no I was very much against that and
so yeah we got it done
chapter 7 is called a sense of duty and
you know part of the part of the deal
when we when we when our founders wrote
out the Declaration of Independence and
the Constitution and and and built the
framework for this free society that we
live in where government's role is to
protect your rights it's fundamentally
the government's really
god-given rights and and and these these
are life liberty property effectively
speaking life liberty and property
that's and the Constitution the
Declaration they Jefferson wrote the
pursuit of happiness and they choose
these words really carefully now part of
the exchange there is is a necessity for
citizens to live with a sense of duty
and to live as a citizen that this idea
of citizenship and to do what is right
to do what is good it's hard for me to
imagine that people are just so
uneducated that they don't know that
they're unhealthy you know I think I
think I think they know it right the
problem is that they don't care that's a
problem and you're getting at that
problem I don't know if I'm true I don't
think it's that they don't care I think
they have no discipline I don't think
it's that they don't care different well
there's there's a differences they'd
have never been taught to push
themselves there's a lot of people it's
just so easy together well that's one of
the reasons why I love the title of your
book fortitude is what people need and
and also they need to understand that
there's a great value in doing difficult
things and this society what's a chapter
is that is it well the name of the
chapters called do something hard do
that for you well listen man that's true
look you're a Navy SEAL man you you know
it you get it you live it this is what
we need we need more people who
understand that I know it's hard to get
up I know it's hard to do things I know
it it's hard for me to but I still do
them and you should do them too I mean
it should be something that we encourage
everyone to do and that we we all talk
about and that we all praise each other
for and we all get excited about
accomplishing these things and taking
care of your physical body taking care
of your meat vehicle if everybody just
did that we would have health care cost
in this country would be radically
decreased well that's a fact
yeah that that's a fact that's a nap
that's an absolute fact if more people
had discipline and more people just went
out and took care of themselves and then
had disciplined to not overeat and that
discipline to to try to choose the right
foods
to make a meal plan write things down I
mean it can be done these we're not
talking about breathing underwater we're
talking about things that can be done by
the average person well III don't think
the the notion of personal
responsibility is talked about enough as
it's almost conservatives talk about it
all the time
things I appreciate about conservatives
but it's it's kind of used against us a
lot right it's almost like we're accused
of being immoral and unfeeling and
uncaring when we say you know in this
whole like oh just tell everybody to
hold ourselves up by their bootstraps
and whatever and like not that we even
used that term but but the point is is
that it's actually important and I don't
think conservatives have done a good
enough job over time explaining why it's
so important and personal responsibility
to as a as a foundation of our culture
it's important because it leads to
empowerment it gives us the agency to
control our own destiny it's if you're
constantly in victimhood if you're
constantly being told that you can't
control your own destiny well that's
fundamentally disempowering that's a
terrible psychological state to be in
and the other thing I tell people is
that is a fundamental American attribute
there's there's some interesting polling
out there although I forget the numbers
right but I always I always have them in
a speech that I give and when when you
ask people what's the exact question
it's it's like do you you know do you
have the things that happen to you are
they within your control or outside your
control it's something like that in
Germany the the answer was was
overwhelmingly things are happening to
them outside of their control right like
like do you understand what I'm saying
in America when the same question was
asked it was like you know 30 or 40
percent of people said yes versus in
Germany it was like 50 or 60 percent
this is a pretty market difference and
that's a uniquely American thing that we
believe we are in control of our own
destiny we tend to overwhelmingly say
more than European countries that if
work hard and and play by the rules and
do what's right that we will get ahead
that we will find that opportunity and I
think that's I think the world
recognizes that too when you when you go
around the world and you ask people
where would you rather be - you know -
if you could immigrate right now what's
your number one destination well it's
the US of A like overwhelmingly the
second place is Canada and Germany at
like six percent of respondents the USA
is like twenty one percent of
respondents so second place isn't even
close and so for all of the left-wing
like anger and always saying how bad it
is and how nothing works here and
everybody's just in in crisis all the
topics that we're in a crisis
technically right now of course but this
this rhetoric was was was prevalent
before all this for all of that
commentary it's it just it's just isn't
true and so and then the reason they use
crisis language okay the reason they
tell you're gonna die in 10 years and
climate change the reason they're always
telling you that corporations are taking
advantage of you and the 1% is just got
you under their Putin all of this it so
it's a very victimizing language and
there's a reason behind it because they
want very they want very very extreme
policies put into place and you can't
justify you can't justify
revolutionising the whole system unless
you convince people that the system is
so bad and so corrupt that it needs to
be revolutionized and and what's that's
created is a real undermining of this
notion of personal responsibility
because you have to tell people they're
victims if you're going to convince them
that they need you to save them and when
you under my personal responsibility you
dis empower people and fundamentally to
me that's what socialism does because
you're telling people there you know
each to each to their need each to their
ability what you're telling people is
that they don't have to work that hard
that they deserve they have rights to
all of these other services from other
people it's their right and we should
distribute that accordingly everybody's
perfectly equal what that does is it
removes agency from people and it's
truly a disempowering thing and we've
seen this throughout their throughout
history you know just talk to
Venezuelans and Cubans and they're so
happy
when they get here they're so happy
because they just want to work hard and
move up and they're just so excited
about this meritocracy that we've that
we've that we've built into our into our
culture
well Cubans are such a great example
that my friend Andrew Schultz who's a
hilarious comedian has a great bit about
how communist Cubans come to America and
the moment they step foot on soil they
become Republicans it's really hilarious
and it's true yeah and they do
appreciate that that aspect of this
country I think one of the things that
you said earlier is that we live in the
best time ever in history and I agree
with that the consequences of it being
such a great time are it's far easier to
get by because it's far easier to get by
people look for things to be more
difficult than they actually are they
look for things to be more stacked
against them than they actually are they
look for more of a woe is me standpoint
when you find people that actually have
a real difficult life they don't look
for things to be hard they find hard
things everywhere they look and
oftentimes you find that those people
that have a real struggle that it's
there's a great documentary called happy
people by Werner Herzog it's about
people who live in Siberia and it is a
brutal difficult existence in extreme
cold but these people are overwhelmingly
happy I mean it is a really crazy
documentary because their physical and
their struggle just for existence just
to survive is so difficult that they've
found this sort of perfect vibration of
existence where they're in the
wilderness they're out there trapping
and hunting and fishing and and farming
and gathering up enough food to survive
in the extreme winters and it's it
really shows you that human beings need
difficult tasks we need things to be
tough to do and we need to actually go
out there and do them to have a feeling
of satisfaction and have a feeling of
personal responsibility and the fact
that you've actually done the things
that you needed to do in order to
survive
it's built into us yeah it really is
this is why I wrote a whole chapter on
this do something hard is it is it is a
real deep dive into the benefits of
suffering yes and and I distinguish
between just going through something
hard like getting blown up in the face
like yeah that's suffering but it's not
self imposed I wouldn't wish that upon
anybody I'm not saying you need to get
blown up in the face and lose an eye to
have this sort of spiritual awakening
and how good it feels to go through
something hard but you should you should
have bitch Lee move into a self-imposed
suffering you were about to say
something no I wasn't no okay but you
know but you just by virtue you're like
you're a seal and seals people that are
special operators people that have gone
through just whether it's military or
first responders really difficult
physical tasks to get to where you you
are just that alone creates character
creates a different kind of person and
the type of people that gravitate
towards those endeavors those they're
special people they are but everybody
you know I didn't write this book for
them and I wrote it for everybody and
and what I what I point out is listen
skills have our hard thing and it's buds
you know it's just such as an acronym it
stands for basic underwater demolition
slash SEAL training it's six months of
hell and it it is it pushes you beyond
limits you you ever thought you had hell
week especially and and when you're done
with that when you when you come away
from hell week there really is this sort
of spiritual awakening it's that you
have higher confidence you feel prepared
for anything even in the some of the
worst situations you can think to
yourself well it's not quite hell week
is it you know and and so you you you
you're able to have a much more
perspective we're lacking in perspective
quite a bit also chapter 2 is called
perspective from darkness and I point
this backed out that too many of us have
have gotten so comfortable we removed
suffering from our life to such an
extraordinary degree and that's not a
bad thing okay that's that's that's an
that's a that's a that's an element of
the modern times that we live in and I'm
happy we live there but the reality is
is that my ancestors were like
struggling through
Texas trying to find water on a daily
basis and and in my life I'm complaining
because when I'm at 30,000 feet flying
through the air the Wi-Fi isn't as fast
as I'd like it to be like so we have
very different complaints and it's good
to every once in a while just think you
know what I have it pretty damn good and
to remind yourself of that
again but do something hard chapter is
it's one it's a deep dive into the
psychological literature which I just
enjoy doing there's there's a lot to
back this up whether it's modern
psychology the history of stoicism or or
the Bible we've all of these all of
these texts these these ancient pieces
of wisdom that have been around for a
very long time they all talk about this
they'll talk about the value of
suffering the value of enduring and
hardship how this builds character and
and how this actually quite literally
makes you stronger in both something
built a metaphysical sense in a
psychological sense and a physical sense
actually actually go into the to the
science of it as well and like how the
the changes in your brain what exercise
does what hardship actually does both
physically and metaphysically like
there's real there's real benefits to
this but you have to do it and and it
doesn't have to be Joe Rogan's life okay
I wonder if a lot of people look at your
life and they're like that guy is too
productive for me and and you know that
it's just too intimidating and maybe
that's so but don't compare yourself to
other people compare compare yourself to
who you were yesterday you know and I
think that was it's not a jordan
peterson that might be a jordan peter
say yes i think i just quoted that but
but but the point is is like these
things are true because they're true
like that's why Jordan peterson says
that because it's true like you know III
don't pretend like I'm the first one to
come up with these ideas I'm just trying
to put them into language that people
can understand and and use my life
experiences to bolster those those
lessons but it just has to be harder
than what you did yesterday and maybe
it's physical but not everybody can do
physical things maybe it's hard for you
to finish a project at home just do that
maybe take a cold shower and you see you
can like kind of you feel tough for the
rest of the day because she's like you
know what I just sat in ten minutes of
icy cold water I didn't do that the day
before but I did it today and now I
still
it might more like a badass thank you
know and I feel like more like a badass
than I did yesterday it's small things
it's the self-imposed suffering is so
important for our lives like me I for me
it's usually physical right like I want
to do this challenge of a workout you
know that kind of keeps me sharp or
maybe it's like running for Congress or
something like I don't know like we all
have something and I'm just saying you
have to find that and make it habitual
it can't just be once either his seals
can get soft too yes we all know that
you know we know who those guys are and
it's because they stopped they stopped
listening from the lessons from buds
into this this value of self-imposed
suffering yeah I feel that resilience is
almost like a muscle it's something that
you can build and it's also something
they can get soft and I think that I
look I love comfort don't get me wrong
but I don't appreciate it unless I've
done something difficult you know if you
look at like all the different things I
do and say are you real productive and
that's nice dude I also like to watch TV
I like to put my feet up I like to kick
back like to have beer I like to relax
but I don't like to relax if I'm not
doing shit I know me and I get mad at me
if I'm not doing anything
I don't like me when I'm not productive
but when I am productive I also can
enjoy to relax
I enjoy relaxation and I don't enjoy it
unless I've earned it and I think that's
what people need to do they they need to
earn their comfort you have a proper
sense of shame which is what you're
describing that's chapter 6 it's called
the right you're describing this stuff
because you already know this like if
you read my book like you'll be like I
already know all this but because it's
true all right now I'm trying to give
these lessons out in a clear and
coherent kind of fun way but these
things are just true you feel bad when
you don't act the way you envisioned
yourself to be like you you have this
hero archetype and I talked about here
are archetypes before you have this idea
of like what you think is the right way
to be and you're trying to live up to
that at all times we often fail and
you've built that archetype over time
maybe looking to others is like the
right kind of hero maybe you've seen how
how successful people are and you're
like I want to be
like that I'm sure maybe you're doing
comedy or fighting or whatever it is
like you're like they have a way of
doing something that maybe I shouldn't
mendicancy built this overtime and you
know when you you know only you know
really when you when you don't meet that
standard when you don't meet that
standard there should be a degree of
shame that you feel and and I and I
again this is a problem I viewed in
society where I don't know that people
are feeling that shame anymore it's
almost the opposite and when you when
you don't feel that shame you can't feel
a sense of duty to be that citizen that
we talked about earlier and I find this
to be a big problem even with the small
stuff like in and I use examples in the
book like you should feel shame when
you're that person who doesn't put the
shopping cart in the little shopping
cart section yeah parking lot and said
leaves it in the parking space
absolutely no it's easy and you're like
ah somebody will do it there's people
there people who take care of this well
but like why why don't you just want you
just put it away and worsley and if you
don't put it away because you're in a
rush you know because your kid is
screaming and maybe have a good reason
not to put it away but the question that
to ask yourself is did you feel bad
about it right did you feel bad about it
and if you didn't feel bad about it what
the hell is wrong with you yes these are
very simple lessons that we have to
start small have to start small the
shopping cart one is a great example
that's such a good one this is a classic
it's so good this makes you mad
that's like I've found the greatest
parking spot and then that damn carts
like it's like so easy to do just just
put it back bitch just walk it over
there put it in the little stall and you
feel better you like look I did it I you
know what I do I bring it all the way
the fuck back to the supermarket copper
stuff I put it back in the thing right
in front yes I don't even put it in the
stall I walk those extra steps and it
doesn't take much time but I feel like I
did something even if it's just a trick
the grocery store doesn't even have to
put those little sections out in the
parking lot they could just tell you to
put it walk it all the way back walk the
door bitch leave but the reason why I
like the little stalls is because of
people they do have kids if there's a
mom
got a baby with her gray give her an way
out or hire some kid to gather those
things up while people are walking out
with them fine but you know if you're
just a guy and you you know you're
shopping for yourself and you don't put
your car back fuck you you know and that
sense of shame that you're talking about
that that really is important people
need to feel shame if you've come up
short like that because you can do
better you can do better and you should
want to do better the way to get back
the way to get ahead in life is to do
everything that way the way you do
everything is the way you do anything
the way you do anything is the way you
do everything I mean that's really what
it is if you just do the right thing do
it the way you're supposed to do it you
can do it and you'll feel better if
you're supposed to get a workout in
today like fuck I'd rather just sleep in
no just fucking get your ass up and do
it and you'll feel better when it's done
you're like damn I did it I can do this
tomorrow too you can and it's momentum
and just developing that momentum it's a
skill it's like everything else it's
like learning how to be polite it's like
learning how to be cordial learning how
to be a nice person
these are learned things you can't just
accept that you're a piece of shit and
this is just the way you are no just
look at yourself as if you are another
person judging you like as if you are a
person who's like a life coach judging
you what would you tell you to do that's
exactly right and the the the reason I
reason I wrote about this was because
you know throughout this book I'm
identifying a problem and then trying to
come up with a solution so the solution
is effectively saying what you're saying
and I write a lot about it I write about
the psychology behind it but the problem
is is like we I feel like we've removed
shame in our culture to a huge extent to
where it's where it's almost celebrated
to you know to like do these wrong
things we've started to change the
definition of what's right and wrong
then this sort of kind of post
postmodern society and we never think
with some examples of what I mean by
that well in
and one part I do bring up the example
of of how we view you know assistance
like government assistance and there's a
the movie Cinderella Man where a Russell
Crowe plays the whatever the name is the
boxer yeah that's a and you know he gets
a welfare check the beginning the movie
by the end of the movies pulled himself
back up and he returns it and that's
sort of like our classic heroic thing to
do like you know what like we believe in
helping people to need it but we also
believe that you shouldn't take it if
you don't need it it seems like a pretty
good good piece of you know civic duty
to live by and then I look to my own
experience leaving the Navy where we
were actually encouraged to get on
Social Security disability insurance as
I was leaving the Navy so I was in a
classroom full of oh fellow of Navy
service members none of which were seals
none of which had been in combat
none of which appeared injured in any
way I was the only one with like a
visible injury or it's obvious as to why
I'm being medically retired and so we're
all getting medically retired and by
nature of getting medically retired from
the military it's guaranteed that we
have some kind of benefit on the back
end of that you know what I would call a
very generous benefit you know people
would disagree with me on that but I
think it's a I think we get a generous
benefit and - on to say on top of that
that we should also take money out of
the Social Security trust fund for
disability insurance even though every
single person in their walk right out of
that classroom is perfectly capable of
working was so frightening to me that it
would that it is so ingrained in our new
culture that that it was actually in the
curriculum at a government classroom um
and and this time of stuff is cheered on
you know and I see this a lot people
will tell a story of victimhood and be
cheered but we're not supposed to cheer
for that we might feel compassion for
them but to cheer for them and this this
explains why we're seeing these sort of
hoaxes that we've seen like why did
Jesse small that feel that he had to say
that to Mogga
guys and Chicago beat him up why did
what was we we didn't ask enough what
the underlying psychology behind that
was think why do that
and I think the reason is because we
started to elevate victimhood to elevate
this sir shame will be hate and this is
what I mean by we sort of changed the
definitions of what it even means to
feel ashamed and what it means to feel
like you're doing the wrong thing
because we've changed the definitions of
right and wrong and I and I see a need
to get us back to some traditional
definitions before we all just lose our
freaking minds yeah I think that's
that's a very good point I think what
you're saying is absolutely correct
I think victimhood should be look if you
are an actual victim I mean I feel for
you it's terrible but if you're not a
victim and you're playing up victimhood
it's disgusting it's one of the grossest
things that you see in our culture
especially when we're talking about how
easy society is and now when you have a
person who is affluent and successful
and famous like Jesse Smollett who does
that and you're like Jesus Christ man
like boy did you miss the point that's
why it's so foul for us when we see
someone who's just trying to for their
own personal gain they're trying to game
the system and make it out like they're
a victim it's one of the grossest things
that you could see in a successful
culture I mean there's people out there
that really are injured like yourself
from combat there's people out there
that really are sick there's people out
there that are really victimized by
violent crime and to fake it it's such a
it's such a disgusting insult to people
that actually are injured yeah and
that's that's like the most extreme I
think that that's the extreme
consequence of this victim agriculture
because there's definitely difference
between real victims in victimhood
culture you have to distinguish between
those two things and we have to respect
somebody who's actually a victim yes you
know in my case and the disability
insurance thing I didn't take it but
what concerns me is that if I had taken
it and in if I had gone on and said in
and sort of proudly exclaimed that I got
this and I needed it like shouldn't
somebody call me out for that you know
and the reality is is I don't think
people would I don't think I would be
called out for that you
no I'm a perfectly capable of work yes
I'm kind of blind and like I can't see
even out of my good eye but I can work I
mean I've shown that I can work why
would I take that that that wouldn't be
just that would I think that would go
against our classical definition of what
is fair and just and yet in our current
culture I do I don't believe that
anybody would call me out for that and I
should be called out if I had taken that
money I really believe that just because
I was already getting benefits right I'm
not saying it shouldn't get anything I
was blown up and then had to get out of
the Navy as a result but but i but I
feel our cultures a little bit backwards
on this and it worries me a great deal
we've changed we've changed a few
definitions like what it means to be a
victim I think we've changed that
definition overwhelmingly and we've
changed the definition of justice also
an injustice and what an injustice
actually is we forget how did we've
forgotten how to distinguish between
discrimination and disparities like just
because you don't have the same thing
does that effectively mean there was a
some injustice that occurred there we're
not asking those analytical questions
and I think that's a real problem and
it's it's made debate very difficult
it's it's made debate with my colleagues
in the Democratic Party very difficult
because every disparity is assumed to be
originating from some kind of injustice
you know every time somebody is welder
than somebody else the Assumption
nowadays is that well it's ill-begotten
money and that there's some kind of
injustice that occurred you know when we
were when we were voting on this giant
stimulus package not really a stimulus
package one of a rescue package remember
how this happened there was you know we
were negotiating through this thing and
was actually looking pretty good Nancy
Pelosi comes in says hell no blown up
the whole thing and we're gonna protect
workers and damn you know not these damn
corporations okay so you know you fast
forward a few days ended up passing
basically the same bill anyway that's a
long story I'd happy to go into the
details of that politically if you'd
like me to but the point is this there
was this outrage from the populace right
and the populace left against anything
that had the name Corporation attached
to it and we've forgotten how to ask
ourselves like why is that
did they do something evil what would it
what exact
is evil about these entities you know
they they employ lots of people to
create lots of wealth in this particular
case they're not being bailed out they
didn't do anything wrong
but we're really mad at them for some
reason we really hate them because
there's this sort of cultural movement
towards towards feeling that anytime
something is successful like our
reaction should be to punish it and that
cultural movement worries me a great
deal it worries me a great deal it's I
think that's what leads to these sort of
topics of socialism well I think that
that is one of the bad aspects of the
ideals of socialism is this inclination
to think that when there is any
inequality that then inequality is
because of either corrupt corruption or
greed there's also inequality of effort
people do not put in the same effort and
when you put in more effort you're more
focused you're more disciplined you do
more work you should be rewarded and
there's people that don't like that idea
and they don't like that idea because
they're fucking lazy and they're weak
and that's a fact and there's people in
this world that are weak and there's
it's it's an unpopular thing to say
because we want to say that no they're
they're economically disenfranchised and
there's some people are yes some people
are and there's also some people that
work like a motherfucker and those
people get by and they get ahead and
those people should be rewarded for
their effort one of the problems that I
have with people that espouse socialist
ideals is that they don't want this
competition aspect of our culture in our
society to exist where you put in more
work you get more reward that's my whole
life that is my whole life I mean every
everything that I've ever done I've
realized oh all you have to do is work
harder than everybody else all you have
to do is put in more time all you have
to do is be more obsessed more focused
and you can get by you can get ahead
well the people that don't like that are
the people that don't like competition
they don't understand it it makes you
feel bad when you lose everyone should
get a trophy everyone should get a
participation trophy that is a giant
problem with our culture
and this inequality yeah there is income
inequality some of it is corruption some
of it is bad some of it is inequality of
effort and that needs to be addressed as
well and it's not a kind of this blanket
thing that all the people that run
corporations are greedy and all the
money that they have acquired is because
of ill-gotten gains it's just not true
it's not true and it's it's
anti-american frankly yeah I I list a
few tenants of a culture that make it a
sustainable successful culture the first
one is personal responsibility I went
into detail on that the second one is
mental toughness which I wrote a whole
book about so and it's important for
that you said it exactly how I described
it when I give speeches on this which is
we need mental toughness because
otherwise how do we survive in a free
society where we have to compete because
the only alternative to a bunch of
mentally weak people is that we do live
in a society where competition is not
necessary because the government will
just give you everything but I don't
want to live in that society and frankly
that society can't function very well
because nobody would actually do
anything and you have to be mentally
tough to deal with that and I think the
American spirit and the American our
history as a culture is a really really
tough bunch of people and I just want to
remind people of that and I want to
remind people that it's something to
aspire to
like this is a good thing like it's cool
to be tougher it's not cool to be a
victim right right but we have so many
like post modernists who actually again
it's going back to this victimhood
culture they want you to be that victim
and then they'll celebrate you for it
yes people tell their victimhood stories
they're cheered but it's like wait a
second where's the where's the part
where you overcame it I thought that was
the story we're supposed to cheer well
they also you know connect they also
connect competition with cruelty and I
think that's that's foolish as well yeah
it feels bad to lose but that's just
because it feels great to win there's
it's a it's a peak in a valley thing and
you have to understand that and look
every competition that I've ever had any
anything that we're I've ever competed
and lost it has fueled me beyond measure
it is what gets you by it's what makes
you better
there I mean one of the reasons why I
understand this is because of martial
arts in martial arts you have to train
with the best people you can and it's it
fucking sucks you get your ass kicked
it's part of the but that's what makes
you better you need those people you
love those people they become your
brothers it's very very very important
the bonds that are formed in jiu-jitsu
gyms and kickboxing gems and martial
arts gyms with the people that you train
the men and women that you train with
the this is an intensity to those bonds
that's almost indescribable to anybody
that hasn't experienced it I mean I'm
sure it's not as tight as people that
have gone through combat together but
there's something there's something in
those people they they fuel you they
help you and they help you by trying to
kick your ass they help you by trying to
be better than you they help you by
trying to be the man they they want to
be the best they can be and you think
about those motherfuckers when you go to
the gym you go goddamn it Mike is here
shit and you you get fired up for that
person that you know is gonna kick your
ass and they provide you with fuel
people that are better than you provide
you with fuel competition provides you
with fuel it doesn't mean you have to be
mean it doesn't mean it's cruel it
doesn't mean it's insensitive it doesn't
mean it doesn't mean that it just means
that competition is good competition is
good for you it's good it shows you your
better abilities it shows you that you
you can aspire to greatness
you can aspire to be better than you are
you can do this and you can do this by
looking at people who also do it
they are your fuel inspiration is fuel
nobody gets inspired by Jesse Smollett
putting the fucking fake noose around
his neck and walking into a hotel still
holding a Subway sandwich
nobody's inspired by that maybe you're
inspired to never be that guy and that
but it's a weak inspiration you're
inspired by greatness you're inspired by
great people stories great people's
autobiographies and documentaries and
stories of them putting in that work and
I mean that that's why there's so many
people that you know they're there
Instagram existence is essentially just
all they doing is just providing
inspiration to people like David Goggins
that fucking guy every day I mean that
guy's whew
millions of people just by being a
badass just do it just life is hard
motherfucker stay hard and just getting
out running every day just by doing that
ok I I need I don't know him who is it
was filming these his way owes like his
wife she run ish this isn't a car or
something she's in a car but there's
been other instances where he's like
climbing a mountain I don't know it's a
very it's a very smooth like maybe she's
a stabilizer I guess oh yeah one of
those there's there's been some
instances where I'm like okay this seems
like a car but this seems impossible to
film and without like some some better
equipment than just like a selfie video
you know well he's got a lot of money I
mean he sold the shit out of that book
so it's a fantastic book and I can't
recommend it enough and you can't hurt
me it's called and the audio version is
even better because the audio version he
actually gets somebody else to read it
but then he comes in between and
discusses each and every chapter so it's
like the audiobook and a podcast
together you know he lives an incredible
life and he's that guy is an amazing
source of fuel for people but is an
amazing source of fuel because of his
own competition with himself and he's a
guy that's talked really openly about
being weak at certain points in his life
and being fat and lazy and that he got
through that he's in he hasn't he wasn't
born this fucking warrior that came out
of the womb running a hundred miles he
became that person and he became that
person from being a slob and he's real
open about it he's even open about his
own weakness currently he's like
sometimes I'll stare at my fucking shoes
for a half hour before I run my shit I
don't want to do this fuck but then
he'll go out and do it and while he's
doing it he'll yell you know like that
people like that or fuel and there's
certain people that don't like people
like that because they make them feel
bad they look at themselves they go
goddamnit I don't work as hard as that
guy I don't have that kind of mental
toughness and then then you try to find
something wrong with it but it's it's
because they're they're not willing to
look at themselves objectively they're
not willing to try to be the best person
that they can be
yeah I agree with that I want to shoot
ahead yeah yeah where does he live he's
in Vegas now Vegas yeah one of you guys
um
you want to bring it back to coronavirus
sure my I would love to because this is
I mean I I think there's the thing I
wanted to maybe discuss is is the
balance that that needs to be talked
about and we this is where I would have
taken the conversation from earlier
about the media what I feel about
swinging the way Sweden is handling it
because we're talking about balance
Sweden has got a very different approach
to it their approach is essentially
listen old people vulnerable people
please take care of yourself stay home
they'll provide assistance they'll get
you food they'll do whatever they can to
get to you but people that are healthy
they want them to go out and live their
lives they don't want the restaurants to
shut down the pubs to shut down this is
a disease that you know it's ravaged
people of all nationalities and all age
demographic groups but their their ideas
take care of your health
be careful but let's get society back on
its feet again and they're widely
criticised by that I would love to hear
what you think well I think the jury's
still out on whether that's a good
strategy or not there's three different
strategies okay and there's a Harvard
white paper that delineates these pretty
well I spoke with one of the professors
from the center of ethics that that was
an author of this and you can describe
these three strategies in the following
way well one they call freeze in place
it's just basically what we're doing
right now it's what most countries are
doing a hardcore quarantine of course
that's different depending what part of
the country you're in the second well
let me jump to the third one the third
one would just be surrender okay
let it happen we'll deal with it as we
go but we're not keeping anybody you
know that's effectively what Sweden is
doing the second option would be sort of
a mix of the two which I think will end
up being the American off
or better well should be where we have a
defined period where we remain in place
but then we we confront the enemy and
like I said we're in a tactical retreat
right now but a certain point we
actually have to come back out swinging
and we need to be prepared to do it
Sweden took on the 3rd approach which is
like basically they they think they can
deal with it and we're gonna see now
their cases are jumping up pretty
dramatically I don't know how much
they'll continue jumping up the Swedes
are also very good at culturally
following the rules you know like
Americans don't like a lot of rules so
sweet the Swedes will well we'll stop at
a red light at 2:00 a.m. even though
there's like nobody around ok same with
people in Switzerland ok this is this is
we have deeper cultural differences I
think there's social cohesion and their
ability to follow rules how like the
Koreans is is different than our culture
where we are we are just way more
individualistic and we're going to do it
over the hell we want we want to
flamethrower in our office we're gonna
have a flamethrower at our office I'm
like don't tell me I can't have it right
I mean you can relate to that I have a
flame right behind me but I have a lot
of guns and their battle I'm not they're
better having yeah situation now they're
always better unless you want to start a
fire well that's what I mean that's the
only situation is sometimes the
situation unless you're in the movie
alien yeah each dude are you the point
is is you need a diversity of weaponry
that's that's that's the truth right um
and so it's okay so this is a three
options I think the jury's still out on
what if it works for Sweden or not I
think it can work and I would like to
see us move to that rather quickly now
we need to be careful about how we do it
but I'm very I'm very concerned about
these indefinite extension of the
timelines of stay in place I think I
think we have to start having reasonable
conversations about the costs of that
and the costs are a lot more than just
dollar signs the costs are held a lot
more than just people's 401ks tanking
the costs are actually people's lives
also whether it's mental health or
suicides or divorces or putting off all
of these
all of these procedures that were just
putting a freeze on so like in its and I
have a lot of problem with this I mean
in places like Houston our hospitals are
not overwhelmed or 50% capacity still
because we're not just not getting that
many more cases but why should then is
why do you think Texas is less prone to
this well I guess I'll answer that
question by stating why I think New York
is the way it is and and New Orleans is
the way it is New York is the way it is
because it's a it's a giant city with
enormous density the most it's the
densest city in the country by far it's
also the most likely pit place that a
lot of international travelers are
coming in and out of and so I think
there were I think it's safe to say
there was multiple hot spots that
occurred within New York City and then
it spread wildly because people ride
subways and elevators I mean it's not
like Los Angeles it's not like Houston
where we take a car everywhere no matter
what there's natural social distancing
that already occurs in New Orleans well
they had mati girl I mean no naughty
girl you know a ditz there's
explanations behind these things and I
do worry sometimes that our modeling is
using these numbers in the wrong ways
and not taking enough into the account
into the fact that that we just we have
very different lifestyles in different
parts of the country and also take into
account that we can target certain
solutions and so regarding the Harvard
white paper that says the second
solution is mobilized in transition
once you've slowed the spread by doing
what we're doing again I'm not against
doing what we're doing I just think we
need to stick to the timelines and maybe
make those timelines sooner than later
and then come out and fight and what
it's fighting mean well while we're in
weights where basically we're ramping up
production of protective gear we're
ramping up production of ventilators
again our system is amazing we are
producing we're gonna be producing but I
think next week or so up to 7,000 new
ventilators a week we haven't run out of
ventilators I went through the numbers
before we're talking about socialized
medicine like one of the benefits of our
system is we are actually way better
prepared than people realize now we have
a big lack of PPE there's a lot of
reasons for that and I can go into one
reason is that China was
upping export from 3m from Goa wanted
China to wrote the rest of the world
back in January February all right this
was dis just came out and in an article
that was written I was confirmed by you
know three aminal on people in
government they were preventing the
export history M produces a lot of it in
China they were preventing those exports
because they wanted to hoard the
supplies then they act like the good guy
and go around the world giving it out I
mean China has to is we're gonna have to
really look at the our supply chains and
our relationship with China after this
but that's one of the reasons we didn't
have the proper amount of PPE it also
depends on the hospital again like there
is some accountability that has to take
place with specific hospitals and
specific cities and why they didn't
prepare but what I've noticed as of late
is this strange belief that the
president is everybody's micromanaging
boss and that's just not how our system
works nor should it and there has to be
some level of accountability of the
local and state level - again I just got
the phone with some of the doctors here
at the Texas Medical Center and I'm like
how are you guys on PPE and they're like
we have so much PPE because we're used
to disasters here we prepare and so
they're just not worried about it we've
supported set up the supply chains in
advance like there has to be we have to
work together there's what I've noticed
and all the finger-pointing and a lot of
it's just political opportunism I don't
know if you if you like if you if you
put these people up to a lie-detector
test I wonder if they really think it
would be the president's fault that this
happened like I don't I don't think they
could pass a lie-detector test you know
I think it's I think it's a lot of
political theatrics but in any case it's
it gets us away from the right way to
look at our system which is local and
state government are our managers they
manage on those smaller levels like if
California wants to try a single-payer
health care system let's see it work in
California or a smaller state and then
let's swim then let's scale it hell
let's let's see if it works in a city
and then let's scale it you know like
there's a reason federalism is the way
it is and it's hard to compare us to
different countries in so many ways
because these countries are like the
size of our city
you know like LA is bigger than most so
many countries
like it's it's it's it's a map the scale
matters to a huge extent and it's like
socialism works if you've got maybe like
50 or 60 people because you can hold
each other accountable there's a little
bit easier than maintenance as you scale
it out you just can't right that's like
coops exists and you know in this
country like Bernie Sanders look blah
blah you can make it work if you can
literally see everybody all the time BAM
a family unit is a socialist unit teach
their own teach their needs
teach their ability when you scale
things out it dramatically changes
things and we have to remember that as
it pertains to dealing with the pandemic
and dealing with public policy as well
the point I was making about the media a
second ago one of the problems it's not
just that they're not informing people
correctly which we discussed earlier the
other problem is that they're preventing
us from having the right discussions
because we do have to have this
discussion that we're talking about
right now which is how do we how do we
responsibly move into a into a system
where we're simultaneously combating the
pandemic but also reopening our economy
and we have to have that and and the
natural reaction from disingenuous
people is oh well how many lives is it
worth to save a job and I'm like okay
that's that's not the right question
it's a very dishonest question and you
know first of all it assumes that
somebody going back to work will
actually cost a life you can't prove
that I mean if we're gonna we're gonna
play this dishonest game of
counterfactuals but also it misses the
point you know we live in a world where
we take risks and and we have to take
those risks and then mitigate those
risks accordingly and we can better
mitigate risk and we better understand
what we're dealing with and when we're
better prepared and those are the two
things we have to do over the next month
is get better prepared and that's and
that the answer there is test more
people especially test people with
antibodies so that we can see who's
actually immune wouldn't give them like
a certificate or something they can do
go do it over they want getting where
ICU beds where they might be needed
getting more ventilators getting more
PPE so that's the preparedness side and
on the other side we risk mitigate it's
just like you know like you explained in
Sweden
let's keep sick and vulnerable people
away
let's target our efforts a little bit
better let's take a more vertical
approach as opposed to a horizontal
approach we can do this we can do this
if we give each other the grace and the
space to do it instead of like this bad
faith finger pointing up like oh you're
just gonna kill people you don't even
care well it's like that's that's a
terrible way to think about it I mean I
could moralize this situation say well I
could I'll save thirty thousand lives
this year because I'm not gonna let
anybody drive and I'm a better person
than you because you have the blood of
thirty thousand people on your hands
because you want people driving that's a
great example one that is a great
example I'm the more roll yeah and
that's it's not it's not at all no
you're you're absolutely right and I'm
worried about that when we do go back
I'm worried about that finger pointing I
really am because I think it's just
gonna muddy the waters and I'm also
worried about it being used as political
opportunism and it's gonna scare people
Ernie hey yes it's already happening I
have a bunch of quotes I could read you
please read some okay hasn't been
published yet but um you know I note
some of them there but I will Nancy
Pelosi last week said you know there was
responsible for the deaths of people the
where is it it's this is why I said
maybe I won't because then I have to
actually look for it here I wrote all
this stuff down but there's a lot of
quotes out there from media and from
okay from from pundits from Twitter
users but I only quote people who are
well-known either they're well-known
journalists or they're politicians but
it usually goes along the lines of
exactly what you just said you were
worried about which is Trump is more
concerned about the the stock market
than people's lives all right that's the
kind of the typical one you hear and no
it's certainly been been said quite a
bit and my fear is that it continues to
be said okay I you know and it prevents
us from having a reasonable debate
because we we truly need to have
that reasonable debate the other the
other thing that frustrates me about
these kind of bad faith arguments is
that the people sang them made the same
claims themselves like a February 1st
Washington Post here's a headline
get a grip America the flu is a much
bigger threat than the coronavirus ok
February first USA Today coronavirus too
scary but the flu is deadlier and more
widespread ok February 3rd Washington
Post why we should be wary of an
aggressive government response to
coronavirus and so these same papers are
now destroying the president all you
didn't act early enough you didn't do
anything it's and you have the blood you
have blood of people on your hands but
like that's amazing ideas yeah the
hypocrisy is insane and like I've so
many more
go ahead New York Times who says it's
not safe to travel to China so this is
following president Trump's extremely at
the time a very bold move to restrict
travel from China and you know and of
course all of these papers and prominent
people are now saying something
different I go through a timeline to
where I look it because again my my
Democratic colleagues are very quick to
continue to accuse this administration
of just dropping the ball doing all
these bad things but I have to remind
everybody how this is this is a good one
on the same day that that Trump
implemented the restriction on travel
this was it's the January 27th okay and
then they announced the they announced
the ban on travel as well as the the
task force January 31st oh sorry the 34
the 31st the Trump administration
implemented the restriction on travel
January 31st and also declared it a
public health emergency on that same day
Nancy Pelosi talked about a bill
promoted a bill called the no ban Act
which would limit the president's
ability to impose travel restrictions so
they get
you just you just can't say you just
can't say that this guy wasn't acting in
the public's best interest and then then
have facts like this when I I do
remember this too and I pointed this out
at the time because you know a lot of
people were not talking about
coronavirus in February and on February
28th which is a few days before February
28th the the Trump admitted the 24 the
Trump administration asked for two and a
half billion dollars from Congress to
combat the spread so that was a money
that had already been spent by HHS by
CDC that needed to be reimbursed so the
Trump administration has already been
dealing with this and they're like hey
Congress we need more money we need more
supplemental funding he got slammed I
don't know if everybody remembers this
but he got destroyed he got told he
wasn't taking it seriously why isn't he
asking you for more money the
president's response to that was okay
fine give me more money like I mean just
write something that that week you know
if we voted on in the House floor we
didn't vote on more money okay they had
days to give more money because this was
earlier in the week we actually voted on
that we close to 339 which is reversing
the youth tobacco epidemic act that was
a bill to ban flavored tobacco
according to House Democrats things like
hookah grisly wintergreen which is maybe
what I might like is now illegal now it
never got into law of course because I
never went through the Senate but I want
people to understand like I'm not I'm
not blaming Democrats either because
there was a lot that we all just didn't
know and I just want I just want to
point these things out because it's
important to give each other to grace to
be like hey not everybody knew what was
happening
it wasn't until early March that it was
exploding as a virus in Iran and Italy
and South Korea these things happen and
it wasn't it wasn't clear that there
should be massive massive lockdowns of
society those are very bold moves and
it's so easy to have this 20/20
hindsight and and and and act you know
holier-than-thou and point fingers but
it's it's highly disingenuous
and I and I built this whole time light
out to show it and I also point out that
the timeline can end you know the from
here on out we could just we could just
give each other some grace and solve
these problems together because it will
be very easy to blame each other for the
deaths of Americans no matter what the
decision is it will be easy because the
counterfactual is impossible to prove
and the fact that it's so easy that
political opportunism is so easy is is
what worries me the most
and like we have to have those
conversations though about reopening
society and when to do it and we have to
have the conversations about this
political opportunism and and shaming it
and calling it for what it is and and
really being honest with those quotes
from the Washington Post The New York
Times USA Today and letting people know
no we didn't know what this was we
didn't see it coming and when it was
coming we were real confused as to what
the consequences were gonna be and we're
also not getting honest data out of
China right China China is just they are
not honest about the body count they're
not honest about any of it we don't
really know what happened over there the
version that we're getting is got holes
in it oh yeah let's talk about that I
did find the quotes that I told you I
had don't want to hear that sure they're
from people like Jen Rubin like CNN so
generative and Trump death tall equals
Trump dead lives that would have been
spared had he acted on warnings the rest
of victims the rest are victims of
Trump's stupidity and narcissism this is
from a prominent Washington Post
columnist again I'm not choosing random
Twitter users you know from New York
Times President Trump was so focused on
fabricating threats involving Central
American caravans that he was oblivious
to the real threats so again I could
keep reading I have a bunch but let's
talk about China
yeah so I just mentioned that one that
story that just came out which is that
they actually prevented PPE from being
delivered outside of China so that you
know we are our companies 3m they
produce it there should have been
exported out they prevented that there
was a study that showed that if they had
if they had actually been honest and
given us given the world three weeks
extra notice 95% of the spread could
have been contained okay Wow five
million people left Wuhan they allowed
travel out of Wuhan
five million people right traveling all
over China all over the world
the reason this this became so bad in
Italy and Iran is because of the belt
road initiative these are major hotspots
for China's economic development and the
belt and Road initiative so then let's
get into the World Health Organization
there's got to be a come-to-jesus moment
on the World Health Organization again
mid-january World Health Organisation
says that says that uh or they repeat
the claims made by China that that um
that it can't even be transmitted human
to human contact On January 30th World
Health Organisation says something along
the lines of there's no reason to be
shutting down travel or limiting travel
so they are directly controlled by the
Chinese government the World Health
Organization it should also be worth
noting I forget the guy's name who runs
at the director of the WHO but he's
released from Ethiopia Ethiopia is one
of these countries that is a huge and it
has a huge investments from the belt and
Road initiative and so I mean we need to
be calling for a complete complete
change out in leadership at the WHL I
mean we see that while we're they
refused to acknowledge he refuses to
acknowledge the existence of Taiwan
he wouldn't even say it the one that
keeps questioning him and he shuts his
his camera off yeah it was like when you
asked me about marijuana use and I
pretended I couldn't hear you you were
joking though we were right in front of
each other joke yeah that's different
yeah he shut his connection off and then
he said China's doing a great job let's
move on
and you know like what very way it's so
deeply corrupt is so deeply corrupt and
I mean you know I don't think that who
will ever have the standing that it did
before not without an immediate and
serious leadership change because
they've they've lost all credibility and
then move on you know fast forward the
Chinese were perpetuating it's unclear
whether they started this route this
this talking point or whether it was the
progressive left and the Chinese just
repeated it and latched on to it but
this whole notion that it's racist to
call the virus the Chinese virus was it
was such an utterly absurd thing that we
were focused on as a country when that
just doesn't matter
I just didn't no matter
no matter what your opinion on whether
it's actually racist or not I mean I
personally don't think it is there's a G
there's there's a history of calling a
virus some kind of geographic name based
on where it's from that's fine
the point is is that Chinese authorities
were tweeted we're spreading that quite
a bit in February so they're doing
things like that then they claim that
perhaps it was the u.s. army that had
started the virus in Wuhan they haven't
let international inspectors go in and
investigate the the origins of this
virus so that we can better understand
it they've I mean that's there's gonna
be well there already is quite a few
things that we're looking at is what we
can do to one rebalance our supply
chains that as a country we need a
better industrial policy on bringing a
lot of important manufacturing back home
and being more competitive in that sense
there can I ask you this is there any
evidence that this was a man-made virus
you know this is the big conspiracy
theory that there was sort of a level-4
bio weapons lab in Wuhan yeah and I just
don't know I mean I I could pontificate
but it is true that there was a
bioweapons lab yeah one yeah I don't
know if it's meant for weapons but
there's certainly a lab there that would
have housed viruses like this and oh
yeah we just we just don't know the
answers and I don't you know especially
in my position I don't want to of course
of course I don't want to I don't want
to assume do you think that this because
of the consequences of this virus and
all this that this awakens people to the
need to manufacture things in America
particularly particularly medical
supplies so many things that we rely on
China for 100% and this is this is some
Trump has been talking about forever and
I think both I think he's received
skepticism from both the left and the
right on that for different reasons
mostly from the right because you know
we we have and the Republicans need to
come to terms with this is what we have
really adhered very closely to a more
libertarian mindset to free trade where
where the more free trade the better
where where if somebody else can make it
cheaper then then we should just have
them make it
this comparative advantage theory and
that's true in theory it is true but but
we can't ignore the consequences and I I
think we have ignored those consequences
for a little too long like what what
happens when you when you close down
that Factory yeah like your t-shirts are
three cents cheaper per unit which is a
really big deal for the margins of your
company and yeah that company can hire
more people
and you get a cheaper t-shirt but but we
kind of miss those manufacturing jobs
like there if you there's there's also a
there's like a moral or immoral but it's
like a psychological benefit to these
manufacturing jobs as well you're
creating something people like that
people like to feel like they're
producing something and that they have
meaningful work that pays pretty decent
and so there's consequences and there's
consequences to the efficiency that has
occurred and then there's national
security consequences and we're learning
about those right now it's not just
medical supplies that we need to take a
look at I'm from Houston so our oil and
gas industry is in a big big dire
straits right now we risk we risk the
possibility that we lose energy into
between Russia and Saudi Arabia now
hopefully I think the administration's
values and diplomatic pressure and and
figured that out to it to an extent but
there's we have to come to we have to
decide whether we think there's value
and doing things ourselves that's the
ultimate question and I would answer
that yes there is now do we take it to
an extreme no but are we out of balance
right now maybe yes and maybe we do need
to look at changing our supply chains
maybe that means some things are just
slightly more expensive maybe that's
what it means but for for a lot of
element for a lot of items we have to be
looking at that we'd be thinking that
way well I think I think also when you
look at what are the consequences of
allowing us to have things manufactured
over there what kind of karma do we take
on for when you look at Foxconn those
buildings where they manufacture iPhones
they have Nets around them to keep
people from jumping off like yeah how
many people have to jump before you put
nets up and like what what what has to
happen there where you
your life sucks so hard to make an
iPhone I mean how much would it cost to
make those here is it worth it for us
and you know is there so the real value
in that the label that we used to love
to look for made in America that's
that's not really discussed that much
anymore but I think it would be wise for
all of us to invest in that idea again
yeah and the problem is is like we we
hold ourselves to those standards of
good labor conditions and good
environmental standards and we but we
punish ourselves almost out of business
completely
and so we punish ourselves out of
business usually for through these
specific regulations or labor or
environmental but then we also engage in
free trade so it almost guarantees that
we lose out our own manufacturing base
or sometimes the energy sector whatever
it is because we we simultaneously make
ourselves less competitive while also
forcing our people to compete against
people who are who work their employees
so hard that they have to build nests
around the office yes they throw
themselves off of it that's such a good
question by the way like how many how
many people actually jump before they
cook the Nets what is the number that is
just a crazy reality and it's also one
that we just accept because we want an
iPhone and I mean apples one of the most
profitable countries the main companies
rather the world's ever known I mean
it's a spectacularly profitable company
and like and and there's there's a whole
of government policy and a hostess I
don't say government it's really society
that we all have to kind of collectively
look at this and it's gonna take the
private sector as well
because Apple would tell you okay I'd
love to do I'd love to open up a plant
here and they do but they'd like to do
more the reason they don't is because
when they put out that job application
nobody will show up or at least not
enough people and so and so what what
does that tell you it tell you is that
we're not educating people in the skills
that are necessary to engage in these
jobs there's a lot of technical skills
that we are not teaching because so this
gets to education policy
why aren't we promoting more stem why
aren't we promoting via the you know the
federal loan program student loans why
are we promoting things and majors that
actually get us to a higher paying job
why you know why why should the taxpayer
be on the hook for a major that is
guaranteed not to pay anything once you
graduate like what are you gonna do with
that degree and it's whatever who knows
like you can name but you know what I'm
talking abut right gender studies
whatever it's these are not high-paying
things and they're not useful for the
economy that that we want and so what
kind of incentives need to shift is my
is my point to encourage more of that so
that Apple when they do look at a place
to build a new factory they can be they
can be confident that people will
actually show up to work there one more
question Dan before we go when you
running for president I know you're
gonna I mean I'm in my thirties I come
on I got I got so much time for years
well yeah I mean technically yeah but
but no I know how old you I'm really I'm
really not planning on that come on stop
line 36 you're 36 when you're 40 I'll be
perfect that's that's the time I mean I
I do like being in politics I like
having a voice it's a place I never
thought I I would be the day before I
decided to run for Congress I was about
to take a job working at the Department
of Defense I'm just kind of moving along
my same trajectory and like the national
security space but I I like this I I've
always loved policy I've always loved
thinking through these things and kind
of the foundations of what makes this
country great and you know I think we've
got great years ahead but yeah I'm not
I'm just answer your question super
honestly and it's not not thinking about
it there's no much change in politics
right now so much so much changes from
year to year thank you so much it's
crazy how how it's not like a there's no
pipeline in politics it doesn't work
that way
you know whether you're running for the
time or whether you're trying to move up
to a different position it's just like
you just got to do what feels right and
when the people want it the people will
let you know what they want it that's a
very good diplomatic answer and I think
you uniquely qualified for politics I
appreciate you I appreciate how
reasonable you are and how honest and
objective you are and I always enjoy
talking to you so thank you very much
Dan and good luck with your book it's
called fortitude it's out right now
go get it folks and I'll put it up on my
Instagram and all that good stuff too
thank you sir appreciate you man and
really appreciate you Joe you safe out
there you too all right
bye everybody thanks Joe
you
[Music]